.\" Copyright (c) 2014 Apple Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 4. Neither the name of Apple Computer nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY APPLE COMPUTER AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"
.Dd August 5, 2014
.Dt SMARTCARDSERVICES 7
.Os "Mac OS X"
.Sh NAME
.Nm SmartCardServices
.Nd overview of smart card support
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
is a set of components which add native support for smart cards to operating system.
Supported smart cards appear as separate keychains.
.Sh USB SMART CARD READER DRIVERS
OS X has built-in support for USB CCID class-compliant smart card readers.
For other readers, install the reader driver in
.Pa /usr/libexec/SmartCardServices/drivers .
Each driver is a bundle.  The bundle contains an XML file Info.plist which contains
the device's USB vendor ID and product ID.  For detailed description of plist format
and how to write driver, see <http://pcsclite.alioth.debian.org/api/group__IFDHandler.html>
.Sh SMART CARD APDU LOGGING
It is possible to turn on logging for smart cards.  Logging is turned on by setting
global preference:
.Pp
.Li "sudo defaults write /Library/Preferences/com.apple.security.smartcard Logging -bool yes"
.Pp
After a smart card reader is connected (or after reboot) all operations including contents
of sent and received APDU messages are then logged into system log.  Logging uses facility
com.apple.security.smartcard.log
so it is possible to set up filtering of these logs into custom targets (see
.Xr asl.conf 5 )
.P
Note that logging setting is one-shot; it must be turned on by the command above to start
logging again with a new reader.  This is to avoid security risk that logging is turned on
indefinitely.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr sc_auth 8 ,
.Xr defaults 1 ,
.Xr asl.conf 5
