.\"
.\" cupsctl man page for CUPS.
.\"
.\" Copyright © 2007-2019 by Apple Inc.
.\" Copyright © 2007 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\" Licensed under Apache License v2.0.  See the file "LICENSE" for more
.\" information.
.\"
.TH cupsctl 8 "CUPS" "26 April 2019" "Apple Inc."
.SH NAME
cupsctl \- configure cupsd.conf options
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cupsctl
[
.B \-E
] [
.B \-U
.I username
] [
.B \-h
\fIserver\fR[\fB:\fIport\fR]
] [
\fB\-\-\fR[\fBno\-\fR]\fBdebug\-logging\fR
] [
\fB\-\-\fR[\fBno\-\fR]\fBremote\-admin\fR
] [
\fB\-\-\fR[\fBno\-\fR]\fBremote\-any\fR
] [
\fB\-\-\fR[\fBno\-\fR]\fBshare\-printers\fR
] [
\fB\-\-\fR[\fBno\-\fR]\fBuser\-cancel\-any\fR
] [
.I name=value
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcupsctl\fR updates or queries the \fIcupsd.conf\fR file for a server. When
no changes are requested, the current configuration values are written to the
standard output in the format "name=value", one per line.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are recognized:
.TP 5
.B \-E
Enables encryption on the connection to the scheduler.
.TP 5
\fB\-U \fIusername\fR
Specifies an alternate username to use when authenticating with the scheduler.
.TP 5
\fB\-h \fIserver\fR[\fB:\fIport\fR]
Specifies the server address.
.TP 5
\fB\-\-\fR[\fBno\-\fR]\fBdebug\-logging\fR
Enables (disables) debug logging to the \fIerror_log\fR file.
.TP 5
\fB\-\-\fR[\fBno\-\fR]\fBremote\-admin\fR
Enables (disables) remote administration.
.TP 5
\fB\-\-\fR[\fBno\-\fR]\fBremote\-any\fR
Enables (disables) printing from any address, e.g., the Internet.
.TP 5
\fB\-\-\fR[\fBno\-\fR]\fBshare\-printers\fR
Enables (disables) sharing of local printers with other computers.
.TP 5
\fB\-\-\fR[\fBno\-\fR]\fBuser\-cancel\-any\fR
Allows (prevents) users to cancel jobs owned by others.
.SH EXAMPLES
Display the current settings:
.nf

    cupsctl

.fi
Enable debug logging:
.nf

    cupsctl --debug-logging

.fi
Get the current debug logging state:
.nf

    cupsctl | grep '^_debug_logging' | awk -F= '{print $2}'

.fi
Disable printer sharing:
.nf

    cupsctl --no-share-printers
.fi
.SH KNOWN ISSUES
You cannot set the Listen or Port directives using \fBcupsctl\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cupsd.conf (5),
.BR cupsd (8),
.br
CUPS Online Help (http://localhost:631/help)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \[co] 2007-2019 by Apple Inc.
