.\"
.\" cupsenable/cupsdisable man page for CUPS.
.\"
.\" Copyright © 2007-2019 by Apple Inc.
.\" Copyright © 1997-2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\" Licensed under Apache License v2.0.  See the file "LICENSE" for more
.\" information.
.\"
.TH cupsenable 8 "CUPS" "26 April 2019" "Apple Inc."
.SH NAME
cupsdisable, cupsenable \- stop/start printers and classes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cupsdisable
[
.B \-E
] [
.B \-U
.I username
] [
.B \-c
] [
\fB\-h \fIserver\fR[\fB:\fIport\fR]
] [
.B \-r
.I reason
] [
.B \-\-hold
]
.I destination(s)
.br
.B cupsenable
[
.B \-E
] [
.B \-U
.I username
] [
.B \-c
] [
\fB\-h \fIserver\fR[\fB:\fIport\fR]
] [
.B \-\-release
]
.I destination(s)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cupsenable
starts the named printers or classes while
.B cupsdisable
stops the named printers or classes.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options may be used:
.TP 5
.B \-E
Forces encryption of the connection to the server.
.TP 5
\fB\-U \fIusername\fR
Uses the specified username when connecting to the server.
.TP 5
.B \-c
Cancels all jobs on the named destination.
.TP 5
\fB\-h \fIserver\fR[\fB:\fIport\fR]
Uses the specified server and port.
.TP 5
.B \-\-hold
Holds remaining jobs on the named printer.
Useful for allowing the current job to complete before performing maintenance.
.TP 5
\fB\-r "\fIreason\fB"\fR
Sets the message associated with the stopped state.
If no reason is specified then the message is set to "Reason Unknown".
.TP 5
.B \-\-release
Releases pending jobs for printing.
Use after running \fBcupsdisable\fR with the \fI\-\-hold\fR option to resume printing.
.SH CONFORMING TO
Unlike the System V printing system, CUPS allows printer names to contain any printable character except SPACE, TAB, "/", or "#".
Also, printer and class names are \fInot\fR case-sensitive.
.LP
The System V versions of these commands are \fBdisable\fR and \fBenable\fR, respectively.
They have been renamed to avoid conflicts with the
.BR bash (1)
build-in commands of the same names.
.LP
The CUPS versions of \fBdisable\fR and \fBenable\fR may ask the user for an access password depending on the printing system configuration.
This differs from the System V versions which require the root user to execute these commands.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cupsaccept (8),
.BR cupsreject (8),
.BR cancel (1),
.BR lp (1),
.BR lpadmin (8),
.BR lpstat (1),
CUPS Online Help (http://localhost:631/help)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \[co] 2007-2019 by Apple Inc.
