.\" $Id: femail.8,v 1.5 2005/09/20 10:57:46 beah Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2005 Henning Brauer <henning@openbsd.org>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd August 9, 2005
.Dt FEMAIL 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm femail
.Nd accept mail on behalf of a real MTA
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm femail
.Op Fl 46tv
.Op Fl f Ar from
.Op Fl F Ar name
.Op Ar address ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is intended to be used on servers that do not run a real MTA or inside
.Xr chroot 8
environments.
It features a
.Xr sendmail 8 Ns -compatible
command line interface and forwards
mail via SMTP to the host given in the config file, an environment variable or
localhost.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width 12345678
.It Fl 4
Only use IPv4.
.It Fl 6
Only use IPv6.
.It Fl F Ar name
Set the sender's name to
.Ar name .
.It Fl f Ar from
Set the sender address to
.Ar from .
Normally,
.Nm
tries to parse the sender from the message, and uses login@hostname if that
is not present.
.It Fl t
Read recipients from the message given on stdin, in addition to the
recipients given on the command line.
.It Fl v
Enable verbose operation.
.El
.Sh CONFIG FILE
The config file,
.Pa /etc/femail.conf ,
consists of simple name=value pairs.
The supported settings are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width "smtphost"
.It Ar smtphost
Specify the server
.Nm
should send the messages to.
.It Ar smtpport
Specify the port
.Nm
uses on
.Ar smtphost
to send the messages.
Default is 25.
.It Ar myname
The hostname
.Nm
uses.
Defaults to the machine's hostname.
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width Ev
.It Ev SMTPHOST
Forward mail to the given host instead of the local host.
Only consulted when not set in the config file.
.It Ev SMTPPORT
Connect to the given port instead of 25.
Only consulted when not set in the config file.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mail 1 ,
.Xr sendmail 8
.Sh AUTHORS
.Nm
was written by
.An Henning Brauer .
