.\"
.\" lpinfo man page for CUPS.
.\"
.\" Copyright © 2007-2019 by Apple Inc.
.\" Copyright © 1997-2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\" Licensed under Apache License v2.0.  See the file "LICENSE" for more
.\" information.
.\"
.TH lpinfo 8 "CUPS" "26 April 2019" "Apple Inc."
.SH NAME
lpinfo \- show available devices or drivers (deprecated)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lpinfo
[
.B \-E
] [
\fB\-h \fIserver\fR[\fB:\fIport\fR]
] [
.B \-l
] [
.B \-\-device\-id
.I device-id-string
] [
.B \-\-exclude\-schemes
.I scheme-list
] [
.B \-\-include\-schemes
.I scheme-list
] [
.B \-\-language
.I locale
] [
.B \-\-make\-and\-model
.I name
] [
.B \-\-product
.I name
]
.B \-m
.br
.B lpinfo
[
.B \-E
] [
\fB\-h \fIserver\fR[\fB:\fIport\fR]
] [
.B \-l
] [
.B \-\-exclude\-schemes
.I scheme-list
] [
.B \-\-include\-schemes
.I scheme-list
] [
.B \-\-timeout
.I seconds
]
.B \-v
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBlpinfo\fR lists the available devices or drivers known to the CUPS server.
The first form (\fI-m\fR) lists the available drivers, while the second form (\fI-v\fR) lists the available devices.
.SH OPTIONS
\fBlpinfo\fR accepts the following options:
.TP 5
.B \-E
Forces encryption when connecting to the server.
.TP 5
\fB\-h \fIserver\fR[\fB:\fIport\fR]
Selects an alternate server.
.TP 5
.B \-l
Shows a "long" listing of devices or drivers.
.TP 5
\fB\-\-device\-id \fIdevice-id-string\fR
Specifies the IEEE-1284 device ID to match when listing drivers with the \fI\-m\fR option.
.TP 5
\fB\-\-exclude\-schemes \fIscheme-list\fR
Specifies a comma-delimited list of device or PPD schemes that should be excluded from the results.
Static PPD files use the "file" scheme.
.TP 5
\fB\-\-include\-schemes \fIscheme-list\fR
Specifies a comma-delimited list of device or PPD schemes that should be included in the results.
Static PPD files use the "file" scheme.
.TP 5
\fB\-\-language \fIlocale\fR
Specifies the language to match when listing drivers with the \fI\-m\fR option.
.TP 5
\fB\-\-make\-and\-model \fIname\fR
Specifies the make and model to match when listing drivers with the \fI\-m\fR option.
.TP 5
\fB\-\-product \fIname\fR
Specifies the product to match when listing drivers with the \fI\-m\fR option.
.TP 5
\fB\-\-timeout \fIseconds\fR
Specifies the timeout when listing devices with the \fI\-v\fR option.
.SH CONFORMING TO
The \fIlpinfo\fR command is unique to CUPS.
.SH EXAMPLES
List all devices:
.nf

    lpinfo \-v

.fi
List all drivers:
.nf

    lpinfo \-m

.fi
List drivers matching "HP LaserJet":
.nf

    lpinfo \-\-make\-and\-model "HP LaserJet" \-m
.fi
.SH NOTES
CUPS printer drivers and backends are deprecated and will no longer be supported in a future feature release of CUPS.
Printers that do not support IPP can be supported using applications such as
.BR ippeveprinter (1).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lpadmin (8),
CUPS Online Help (http://localhost:631/help)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \[co] 2007-2019 by Apple Inc.
