.Dd March 3, 2011
.Dt opendirectoryd 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm opendirectoryd
.Nd is a 
.Xr launchd 8
job for client access to local or remote directory systems
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl -version
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a 
.Xr launchd 8
job which replaces 
.Qq DirectoryService
as a core part of the Open Directory technology. Several modules are provided that allow 
access to existing directory systems:
.Pp
.Bl -bullet -offset indent -compact
.It
Active Directory
.It
LDAP
.It
Local Database
.It
NIS
.El
.Ss Modules
.Nm
modules have specific capabilities:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -offset indent -width "Authentication" -compact
.It Pa Authentication
password verification, password changes, etc.
.It Pa Connection
general connections used for queries, record modifications, etc.
.It Pa Discovery
location and prioritization of servers to contact (a.k.a., service discovery)
.It Pa Unspecified
a generic module used for unspecified purpose (usually to extend capabilities)
.El
.Pp
Third party plugins developed for 
.Qq DirectoryService
are supported via
.Xr dspluginhelperd 8 .
.Ss Open Directory
Open Directory is a technology which includes a client API abstraction layer, a directory server, and the
.Nm
daemon.  This allows clients to utilize a single API to access a variety of directory servers simultaneously or
configure their own directory server.
.Pp
Open Directory forms the foundation of how Mac OS X accesses all authoritative configuration information
(users, groups, mounts, managed desktop data, etc.).  This allows use of virtually any
directory system via Apple and third party modules.
.Pp
Configuration of
.Nm
is done via 
.Qq System Preferences
under the
.Qq Users & Groups
preference pane. Advanced settings are available by using 
.Qq Open Directory Utility...
within
.Qq Users & Groups
preference pane.
.Pp
More information is available from the Open Directory website:
.Pp
    http://developer.apple.com/darwin/projects/opendirectory/
.Ss Open Directory Server
Open Directory Server utilizes OpenLDAP which is included as part of Mac OS X Client, Mac OS X Server,
and Darwin. OpenLDAP provides a robust and scalable platform for serving directory-based information for both
standalone and networked systems.
.Ss NFSv4 Domain name
The following will set the default domain name used to map user and group identities in NFSv4 client/server operations.
.Bd -literal
dscl . -create Config/NFSv4Domain RealName <Example.com>
.Ed
.Pp
This command requires root privileges.
.Sh FILES
Files are stored in various locations for opendirectoryd depending on use.  A list of folders and files are shown below.
.Pp
.Ss System files provided by Apple and should only change with operating system updates:
.Bl -tag -width "/Library/Preferences/OpenDirectory/Modules/" -compact
.It Pa /System/Library/OpenDirectory/Configurations/
node configuration files
.It Pa /System/Library/OpenDirectory/DynamicNodeTemplates/
dynamic node definitions
.It Pa /System/Library/OpenDirectory/Mappings/
record/attribute mapping tables
.It Pa /System/Library/OpenDirectory/Modules/
modules to be loaded on demand
.It Pa /System/Library/OpenDirectory/Templates/
templates used for node styles (module layout and mappings)
.It Pa /System/Library/OpenDirectory/record-schema.plist
OpenDirectory record/attribute schema
.It Pa /System/Library/OpenDirectory/permissions.plist
OpenDirectory global record/attribute permissions
.El
.Pp
.Ss User defined files:
.Bl -tag -width "/Library/Preferences/OpenDirectory/Modules/" -compact
.It Pa /Library/OpenDirectory/Templates/
templates used for node styles (module layout and mappings)
.It Pa /Library/OpenDirectory/Mappings/
record/attribute mapping tables
.El
.Pp
.Ss Files that change periodically are located in:
.Bl -tag -width "/Library/Preferences/OpenDirectory/Modules/" -compact
.It Pa /Library/Preferences/OpenDirectory/Configurations/
node configuration files
.It Pa /Library/Preferences/OpenDirectory/DynamicData/
dynamic data stored by nodes
.It Pa /Library/Preferences/OpenDirectory/.LogDebugAtStartOnce
enables debug logging until process exits or system is rebooted (reboot required)
.It Pa /var/log/opendirectoryd.log*
log file(s) for opendirectoryd
.El
.Pp
.Ss Legacy locations:
.Bl -tag -width "/Library/Preferences/OpenDirectory/Modules/" -compact
.It Pa /Library/DirectoryServices/PlugIns/
third party DirectoryService plugins loaded by dspluginhelperd
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.Xr odutil 1 ,
.Xr dspluginhelperd 8 ,
.Xr slapd 8
