.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.\" test with     groff -man sso_util.8 -T ascii | more
.Dd Tue Mar 11 2003               \" DATE 
.Dt sso_util 8      \" Program name and manual section number 
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm sso_util
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line. 
.\" Use .Nm macro to designate other names for the documented program.
.Nd Kerberos 
.Nd Open Directory Single Sign On 
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
command
.Op Fl args              \" [-abcd]
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
is a tool for setting up, interrogating and removing Kerberos configurations
within the Apple Single Sign On environment. This tool can configure services,
create and consume encrypted config records and tear down Kerberos installations
.Pp                      \" Inserts a space
Commands for 
.Nm
:
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Begins a tagged list 
.It info  [-p] [-g | -l | -L | -r dir_node_path [dir_node_path] ]             \" Each item preceded by .It macro
Returns information about the current Single Sign On environment
.Pp
info command arguments:
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Differs from above in tag removed 
.It Fl p                 \"-a flag as a list item
Returns the data in XML format
.It Fl g
Returns the default Kerberos realm name
.It Fl l
Returns a list of the services sso_util knows how to Kerberize
.It Fl L
Returns the default Kerberos log file paths
.It Fl r Ar dir_node_path
Returns whether or not the given node has a Kerberos record 
associated with it. If it does, it returns the default realm name.
If dir_node_path is '.' (default) it also returns all the realm names available on the search path
.It Ar dir_node_path
specifies the directory node in which to search for the computer record
.El                      \" Ends the list
.It configure -r REALM  -a admin_name [-p password] service
Configures Kerberized services on the local machine for the given realm
.Pp
configure command arguments:
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Differs from above in tag removed 
.It Fl r Ar REALM                 \"-a flag as a list item
Kerberos realm for the service principals
.It Fl a Ar admin_name
Account name of an administrator authorized to make changes in the Kerberos database
.It Fl p Ar password
Password for the above administrator. The password can also be stored in a file and the path to the file can be passed as an environment variable - SSO_PASSWD_PATH.
.It Ar service
Service can be any number of afp, ftp, imap, pop, smtp, ssh, fcsvr, DNS, or all 
.El                      \" Ends the list
.It useconfig [-u] [-R record_name]  [-f dir_node_path]  -a admin_name [-p password]
Uses a secure config record to configure a server for Kerberos
.Pp
configure command arguments:
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Differs from above in tag removed 
.It Fl u                 
Forces the update, ignoring that the update may already have been installed
.It Fl R Ar record_name              
Name of the Computer record containing the secure config record
.It Fl f Ar dir_node_path                 
Specifies the directory node in which to find the given computer record
.It Fl a Ar admin_name
Account name of an user authorized to use the secure config record (see
.Ar generateconfig )
.It Fl p Ar password
Password for the above user. The password can also be stored in a file and the path to the file can be passed as an environment variable - SSO_PASSWD_PATH.
.El                      \" Ends the list
.El
.Pp
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT      \" May not be needed
.\" .Bl -tag -width "ENV_VAR_1" -indent \" ENV_VAR_1 is width of the string ENV_VAR_1
.\" .It Ev ENV_VAR_1
.\" Description of ENV_VAR_1
.\" .It Ev ENV_VAR_2
.\" Description of ENV_VAR_2
.\" .El                      
.Sh EXAMPLES
To configure a server in realm FOO.COM when you have the Kerberos administrator's password. Store the password in a file and 
set env var SSO_PASSWD_PATH to the file path
.Pp
sso_util configure -r FOO.COM -a kerberos_admin all
.Pp
.Pp
To create a secure config record to allow the delegated administrators, Fred and Barney, to configure a server named
fred.foo.com in realm FOO.COM (using an existing computer record). The Open Directory Master
for foo.com is odmaster.foo.com. This can be run on any server and neither Fred nor Barney need to 
have the Kerberos administrator's password. Store the password in a file and set env var SSO_PASSWD_PATH to the file path.
.Pp
sso_util generateconfig -r FOO.COM -R fred.foo.com -f /LDAPv3/odmaster.foo.com  -U Fred,Barney -a kerberos_admin all
.Pp
.Pp
To use the secure config record to allow Barney to configure the server named
fred.foo.com. Store the password in a file and set env var SSO_PASSWD_PATH to the file path. 
.Pp
sso_util useconfig -R fred.foo.com -f /LDAPv3/odmaster.foo.com -a Barney 
.Pp
.Sh FILES                \" File used or created by the topic of the man page
.Bl -tag -width "/etc/krb5.keytab" -compact
.It Pa /etc/krb5.keytab
The configure and useconfig commands create or modify the
.Ar krb5.keytab
file.
.El
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS       \" May not be needed
.\" .Bl -diag
You can add -v debug_level to any of the 
.Nm
commands. Debug level 1 provides status information, higher levels add progressively more
levels of detail. The maximum is level 7.
.Sh NOTES
The
.Nm
tool is used by the Apple Single Sign On system to set up Kerberized services integrated with the rest
of the Single Sign On components.
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.\" List links in ascending order by section, alphabetically within a section.
.\" Please do not reference files that do not exist without filing a bug report
.Xr kdc 8 ,
.Xr kdcsetup 8 ,
.Xr kerberos 8 ,
.Xr krbservicesetup 8
.\" .Sh BUGS              \" Document known, unremedied bugs 
.\" .Sh HISTORY           \" Document history if command behaves in a unique manner 
