'\" t  
'\"macro stdmacro
.ds Vn Version 1.2
.ds Dt 24 September 1999
.ds Re Release 1.2.1
.ds Dp May 22 14:45
.ds Dm 8 May 22 14:
.ds Xs 10201     5
.TH GLGETCONVOLUTIONPARAMETER 3G
.SH NAME
.B "glGetConvolutionParameterfv, glGetConvolutionParameteriv
\- get convolution parameters

.SH C SPECIFICATION
void \f3glGetConvolutionParameterfv\fP(
GLenum \fItarget\fP,
.nf
.ta \w'\f3void \fPglGetConvolutionParameterfv( 'u
	GLenum \fIpname\fP,
	GLfloat \fI*params\fP )
.fi
void \f3glGetConvolutionParameteriv\fP(
GLenum \fItarget\fP,
.nf
.ta \w'\f3void \fPglGetConvolutionParameteriv( 'u
	GLenum \fIpname\fP,
	GLint \fI*params\fP )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP \w'\f2target\fP\ \ 'u 
\f2target\fP
The filter whose parameters are to be retrieved.
Must be one of
\%\f3GL_CONVOLUTION_1D\fP,
\%\f3GL_CONVOLUTION_2D\fP, or
\%\f3GL_SEPARABLE_2D\fP.
.TP
\f2pname\fP
The parameter to be retrieved.
Must be one of
\%\f3GL_CONVOLUTION_BORDER_MODE\fP,
\%\f3GL_CONVOLUTION_BORDER_COLOR\fP,
\%\f3GL_CONVOLUTION_FILTER_SCALE\fP,
\%\f3GL_CONVOLUTION_FILTER_BIAS\fP,
\%\f3GL_CONVOLUTION_FORMAT\fP,
\%\f3GL_CONVOLUTION_WIDTH\fP,
\%\f3GL_CONVOLUTION_HEIGHT\fP,
\%\f3GL_MAX_CONVOLUTION_WIDTH\fP, or
\%\f3GL_MAX_CONVOLUTION_HEIGHT\fP.
.TP
\f2params\fP
Pointer to storage for the parameters to be retrieved.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\%\f3glGetConvolutionParameter\fP retrieves convolution parameters.
\f2target\fP determines which convolution filter is queried.
\f2pname\fP determines which parameter is returned:
.TP
\%\f3GL_CONVOLUTION_BORDER_MODE\fP
The convolution border mode.
See \%\f3glConvolutionParameter\fP for a list of border modes.
.TP
\%\f3GL_CONVOLUTION_BORDER_COLOR\fP
The current convolution border color.
\f2params\fP must be a pointer to an array of four elements,
which will receive the red, green, blue, and alpha border colors.
.TP
\%\f3GL_CONVOLUTION_FILTER_SCALE\fP
The current filter scale factors.
\f2params\fP must be a pointer to an array of four elements,
which will receive the red, green, blue, and alpha filter scale
factors in that order.
.TP
\%\f3GL_CONVOLUTION_FILTER_BIAS\fP
The current filter bias factors.
\f2params\fP must be a pointer to an array of four elements,
which will receive the red, green, blue, and alpha filter bias
terms in that order.
.TP
\%\f3GL_CONVOLUTION_FORMAT\fP
The current internal .
See \%\f3glConvolutionFilter1D\fP, \%\f3glConvolutionFilter2D\fP,
and \%\f3glSeparableFilter2D\fP for lists of allowable formats.
.TP
\%\f3GL_CONVOLUTION_WIDTH\fP
The current filter image width.
.TP
\%\f3GL_CONVOLUTION_HEIGHT\fP
The current filter image height.
.TP
\%\f3GL_MAX_CONVOLUTION_WIDTH\fP
The maximum acceptable filter image width.
.TP
\%\f3GL_MAX_CONVOLUTION_HEIGHT\fP
The maximum acceptable filter image height.
.SH ERRORS
\%\f3GL_INVALID_ENUM\fP is generated if \f2target\fP is not one of the allowable
values.
.P
\%\f3GL_INVALID_ENUM\fP is generated if \f2pname\fP is not one of the allowable
values.
.P
\%\f3GL_INVALID_ENUM\fP is generated if \f2target\fP is \%\f3GL_CONVOLUTION_1D\fP
and \f2pname\fP is \%\f3GL_CONVOLUTION_HEIGHT\fP or
\%\f3GL_MAX_CONVOLUTION_HEIGHT\fP.
.P
\%\f3GL_INVALID_OPERATION\fP is generated if \%\f3glGetConvolutionParameter\fP is executed
between the execution of \%\f3glBegin\fP and the corresponding
execution of \%\f3glEnd\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
\%\f3glGetConvolutionFilter\fP,
\%\f3glGetSeparableFilter2D\fP,
\%\f3glConvolutionParameter\fP
