.lf 1 stdin
.TH LDAP_ABANDON 3 "2011/11/24" "OpenLDAP 2.4.28"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-2011 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldap_abandon_ext \- Abandon an LDAP operation in progress
.SH LIBRARY
OpenLDAP LDAP (libldap, \-lldap)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B
#include <ldap.h>
.LP
.ft B
int ldap_abandon_ext(
.RS
.ft B
LDAP *\fIld\fB,
Bint \fImsgid\fB,
LDAPControl **\fIsctrls\fB,
LDAPControl **\fIcctrls\fB );
.RE
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B ldap_abandon_ext()
routine is used to send a LDAP Abandon request for an
operation in progress.  The \fImsgid\fP passed should be the
message id of an outstanding LDAP operation, such as returned by
.BR ldap_search_ext (3).
.LP
.BR ldap_abandon_ext ()
checks to see if the result of the operation has already come in.  If it
has, it deletes it from the queue of pending messages.  If not,
it sends an LDAP abandon request to the LDAP server.
.LP
The caller can expect that the result of an abandoned operation
will not be returned from a future call to
.BR ldap_result (3).
.LP
.B ldap_abandon_ext()
allows server and client controls to be passed in via the
.I sctrls
and
.I cctrls
parameters, respectively.
.LP
.B ldap_abandon_ext()
returns a code indicating success or, in the case of failure, the
nature of the failure.  See
.BR ldap_error (3)
for details.
.SH DEPRECATED INTERFACES
The
.B ldap_abandon()
routine is deprecated in favor of the
.B ldap_abandon_ext()
routine. 
.LP
.lf 1 ./Deprecated
Deprecated interfaces generally remain in the library.  The macro
LDAP_DEPRECATED can be defined to a non-zero value
(e.g., -DLDAP_DEPRECATED=1) when compiling program designed to use
deprecated interfaces.  It is recommended that developers writing new
programs, or updating old programs, avoid use of deprecated interfaces.
Over time, it is expected that documentation (and, eventually, support) for
deprecated interfaces to be eliminated.
.lf 61 stdin

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ldap (3),
.BR ldap_error (3),
.BR ldap_result (3),
.BR ldap_search_ext (3)
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.lf 1 ./../Project
.\" Shared Project Acknowledgement Text
.B "OpenLDAP Software"
is developed and maintained by The OpenLDAP Project <http://www.openldap.org/>.
.B "OpenLDAP Software"
is derived from University of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.  
.lf 69 stdin

