.\" Copyright (c) 2018, Apple Inc. All rights reserved.
.Dd Sep. 14, 2018
.Dt "libFaultOrdering" 3
.Os "Mac OS X"
.Sh NAME
.Nm libFaultOrdering
.Nd a runtime debugging library using page faults to determine per-module page
utilization
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm libFaultOrdering
utilizes dyld's library notification callback to vm_protect the __TEXT pages of
libraries as they're loaded to be non-executable and installs an exception
handler to catch the faults. When a fault occurs, libFaultOrdering restores
executable privileges to the page and records the fault address, allowing the
library's user to see what symbol was first utilized on the __TEXT page.
.Pp
To use this library, insert it into a process at launch via:
DYLD_INSERT_LIBRARIES=/usr/local/lib/libFaultOrdering.dylib
.Pp
Note: this will only work for processes that are not considered "restricted" by
dyld due to being setuid(), utilizing private entitlements, or running with
library validation enabled.
.Pp
Upon a successful exit() (i.e. not SIGKILL), this library will print out
statistics on how many __TEXT pages were faulted in an ascii-art form like so:
.Bd -literal
  Module: leaks - 0x10f067000 (31 pages)
  19/31 faulted (61.29%) with 5 discontiguous ranges
  [xxx--xxxxxxx---xx------x-xxxxxx]
.Ed
.Pp
In the printed summaries like the one above, each 'x' represents a VM page that
was faulted, and each '-' represents a page that was not.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT OPTIONS:
.Bl -tag -width "ORDER_FILE_OUTPUT_DIR=<path>"
.It Ev VERBOSE_FAULTS=1
The first time a __TEXT page is faulted in, print the symbol which caused the
fault.
.It Ev ORDER_FILE_OUTPUT_DIR=<path>
Append the faulted symbols to an order file located at
"<path>/<module-name>.order" If this path does not already exist for a given
module, it will not be created, and the file will be treated as append-only.
Uniquing/merging symbols in the append-only order file is left as an exercise
to the user and will likely require ~20-80 re-link cycles to get a fairly good
ordering as only the first symbol on each page is reported when the page is
first faulted in.
.It Ev DYLD_SHARED_REGION=avoid
As libraries in dyld's shared region can't be vm_protected to selectively remove
executable privileges, usage of this environment variable can allow gathering
statistics of libraries that would normally be loaded from the
.Xr dyld 1
shared cache by forcing dyld to attempt to load them from disk if possible.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLE USAGE
VERBOSE_FAULTS=1 DYLD_INSERT_LIBRARIES=/usr/local/lib/libFaultOrdering.dylib
/Applications/Calculator.app/Contents/MacOS/Calculator
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr dyld 1
.Xr libgmalloc 3
