.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 2001 Carnegie Mellon University.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. The name "Carnegie Mellon University" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For permission or any other legal
.\"    details, please contact  
.\"      Office of Technology Transfer
.\"      Carnegie Mellon University
.\"      5000 Forbes Avenue
.\"      Pittsburgh, PA  15213-3890
.\"      (412) 268-4387, fax: (412) 268-7395
.\"      tech-transfer@andrew.cmu.edu
.\"
.\" 4. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by Computing Services
.\"     at Carnegie Mellon University (http://www.cmu.edu/computing/)."
.\"
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN
.\" AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.TH sasl_decode 3 "10 July 2001" SASL "SASL man pages"
.SH NAME
sasl_decode \- Decode data received


.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sasl/sasl.h>

.sp
.BI "int sasl_decode(sasl_conn_t " *conn ", "
.BI "		     const char * " input ", " 
.BI "                unsigned " inputlen ", " 
.BI "		     const char ** " output ", " 
.BI "		     unsigned * " outputlen ");"  

.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION

.B sasl_decode
decodes data received. After successful authentication this function
should be called on all data received. It decodes the data from
encrypted or signed form to plain data. If there was no security layer
negotiated the output is identical to the input.

.I output
contains the decoded data and is allocated/freed by the library.

One should not to give sasl_decode more data than the negotiated maxbufsize (see sasl_getprop).

Note that sasl_decode can succeed and outputlen can be zero. If this
is the case simply wait for more data and call sasl_decode again.

.PP

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Returns SASL_OK on success. See sasl_errors(3) for meanings of other return
codes.

.SH "CONFORMING TO"
RFC 4422
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sasl(3), sasl_errors(3), sasl_encode(3)