'\" te  
'\"macro stdmacro
.ds Vn Version 1.2
.ds Dt 24 September 1999
.ds Re Release 1.2.1
.ds Dp May 22 14:45
.ds Dm 7 May 22 14:
.ds Xs 28384     6
.TH GLCOPYTEXSUBIMAGE1D 3G
.SH NAME
.B "glCopyTexSubImage1D
\- copy a one-dimensional texture subimage

.SH C SPECIFICATION
void \f3glCopyTexSubImage1D\fP(
GLenum \fItarget\fP,
.nf
.ta \w'\f3void \fPglCopyTexSubImage1D( 'u
	GLint \fIlevel\fP,
	GLint \fIxoffset\fP,
	GLint \fIx\fP,
	GLint \fIy\fP,
	GLsizei \fIwidth\fP )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP \w'\fIxoffset\fP\ \ 'u 
\f2target\fP
Specifies the target texture.
Must be \%\f3GL_TEXTURE_1D\fP.
.TP
\f2level\fP
Specifies the level-of-detail number.
Level 0 is the base image level.
Level \f2n\fP is the \f2n\fPth mipmap reduction image.
.TP
\f2xoffset\fP
Specifies the texel offset within the texture array.
.TP
\f2x\fP, \f2y\fP
Specify the window coordinates of the left corner
of the row of pixels to be copied.
.TP
\f2width\fP
Specifies the width of the texture subimage.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\%\f3glCopyTexSubImage1D\fP replaces a portion of a one-dimensional
texture image with pixels from the current \%\f3GL_READ_BUFFER\fP (rather
than from main memory, as is the case for \%\f3glTexSubImage1D\fP).
.P
The screen-aligned pixel row with left corner at (\f2x\fP,\ \f2y\fP), and with
length \f2width\fP replaces the portion of the
texture array with x indices \f2xoffset\fP through \f2xoffset\fP + \f2xwidth\fP - 1,
inclusive. The destination in the texture array may not 
include any texels outside the texture array as it was 
originally specified.
.P
The pixels in the row are processed exactly as if
\%\f3glCopyPixels\fP had been called, but the process stops just before
final conversion.
At this point all pixel component values are clamped to the range [0,\ 1]
and then converted to the texture's internal  for storage in the texel
array.
.P
It is not an error to specify a subtexture with zero width, but
such a specification has no effect.
If any of the pixels within the specified row of the current
\%\f3GL_READ_BUFFER\fP are outside the read window associated with the current
rendering context, then the values obtained for those pixels are undefined.
.P
No change is made to the \f2internalformat\fP, \f2width\fP,
or \f2border\fP parameters of the specified texture
array or to texel values outside the specified subregion.
.SH NOTES
\%\f3glCopyTexSubImage1D\fP is available only if the GL version is 1.1 or greater.
.P
Texturing has no effect in color index mode.
.P
\%\f3glPixelStore\fP and \%\f3glPixelTransfer\fP modes affect texture images
in exactly the way they affect \%\f3glDrawPixels\fP.
.P
When the \%\f3GL_ARB_imaging\fP extension is supported, the RGBA components
copied from the framebuffer may be processed by the imaging pipeline.  See
\%\f3glTexImage1D\fP for specific details.
.SH ERRORS
\%\f3GL_INVALID_ENUM\fP is generated if \f2target\fP is not \%\f3GL_TEXTURE_1D\fP.
.P
\%\f3GL_INVALID_OPERATION\fP is generated if the texture array has not
been defined by a previous \%\f3glTexImage1D\fP or \%\f3glCopyTexImage1D\fP operation.
.P
\%\f3GL_INVALID_VALUE\fP is generated if \f2level\fP is less than 0.
.P 
\%\f3GL_INVALID_VALUE\fP may be generated if \f2level\fP > log2(\f2 max\fP),
where \f2max\fP is the returned value of \%\f3GL_MAX_TEXTURE_SIZE\fP.
.P
\%\f3GL_INVALID_VALUE\fP is generated if \f2y\fP < -b
or if \f2width\fP <  -b, where b 
is the border width of the texture array.
.P
\%\f3GL_INVALID_VALUE\fP is generated if \f2xoffset\fP < -b, or 
(f2xoffset\fP+f2width\fP) > (w-b),
where w is the \%\f3GL_TEXTURE_WIDTH\fP, and b is the \%\f3GL_TEXTURE_BORDER\fP 
of the texture image being modified.
Note that w includes twice the border width.
.P
.SH ASSOCIATED GETS
\%\f3glGetTexImage\fP
.br
\%\f3glIsEnabled\fP with argument \%\f3GL_TEXTURE_1D\fP
.SH SEE ALSO
\%\f3glCopyPixels\fP,
\%\f3glCopyTexImage1D\fP,
\%\f3glCopyTexImage2D\fP,
\%\f3glCopyTexSubImage2D\fP,
\%\f3glCopyTexSubImage3D\fP,
\%\f3glPixelStore\fP,
\%\f3glPixelTransfer\fP,
\%\f3glReadBuffer\fP,
\%\f3glTexEnv\fP,
\%\f3glTexGen\fP,
\%\f3glTexImage1D\fP,
\%\f3glTexImage2D\fP,
\%\f3glTexImage3D\fP,
\%\f3glTexParameter\fP,
\%\f3glTexSubImage1D\fP,
\%\f3glTexSubImage2D\fP,
\%\f3glTexSubImage3D\fP
