.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 2001 Carnegie Mellon University.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. The name "Carnegie Mellon University" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For permission or any other legal
.\"    details, please contact  
.\"      Office of Technology Transfer
.\"      Carnegie Mellon University
.\"      5000 Forbes Avenue
.\"      Pittsburgh, PA  15213-3890
.\"      (412) 268-4387, fax: (412) 268-7395
.\"      tech-transfer@andrew.cmu.edu
.\"
.\" 4. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by Computing Services
.\"     at Carnegie Mellon University (http://www.cmu.edu/computing/)."
.\"
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN
.\" AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.TH sasl_server_step 3 "10 July 2001" SASL "SASL man pages"
.SH NAME
sasl_server_step \- Perform a step in the authentication negotiation


.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sasl/sasl.h>
.sp
.BI "int sasl_server_step(sasl_conn_t " *conn ", "
.BI "		          const char " *clientin ", "
.BI "		          unsigned " clientinlen ", "
.BI "	        	  const char ** " serverout ", "
.BI "		          unsigned * " serveroutlen ");"


.SH DESCRIPTION

.B sasl_server_step()
performs a step in the authentication negotiation. It returns SASL_OK
if the whole negotiation is successful and SASL_CONTINUE if this step
is ok but at least one more step is needed.

.PP
.I conn
is the SASL connection context
.PP
.I clientin
is the data given by the client (decoded if the protocol encodes requests sent over the wire)
.I clientinlen
is the length of
.I clientin
.PP
.I serverout
and
.I serveroutlen
are set by the library and should be sent to the client.
.PP
.SH "RETURN VALUE"

sasl_server_step returns an integer which corresponds to one of the
SASL error codes. SASL_CONTINUE indicates success and that there are
more steps needed in the authentication. SASL_OK indicates that the
authentication is complete. All other return codes indicate errors and
should either be handled or the authentication session should be quit.

.SH "CONFORMING TO"
RFC 4422
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sasl(3), sasl_errors(3), sasl_server_init(3), sasl_server_new(3), sasl_server_start(3)
