'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 1994 The Regents of the University of California.
'\" Copyright (c) 1994-1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
'\"
'\" See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
'\" of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
'\" 
'\" RCS: @(#) $Id$
'\" 
.\" The -*- nroff -*- definitions below are for supplemental macros used
.\" in Tcl/Tk manual entries.
.\"
.\" .AP type name in/out ?indent?
.\"	Start paragraph describing an argument to a library procedure.
.\"	type is type of argument (int, etc.), in/out is either "in", "out",
.\"	or "in/out" to describe whether procedure reads or modifies arg,
.\"	and indent is equivalent to second arg of .IP (shouldn't ever be
.\"	needed;  use .AS below instead)
.\"
.\" .AS ?type? ?name?
.\"	Give maximum sizes of arguments for setting tab stops.  Type and
.\"	name are examples of largest possible arguments that will be passed
.\"	to .AP later.  If args are omitted, default tab stops are used.
.\"
.\" .BS
.\"	Start box enclosure.  From here until next .BE, everything will be
.\"	enclosed in one large box.
.\"
.\" .BE
.\"	End of box enclosure.
.\"
.\" .CS
.\"	Begin code excerpt.
.\"
.\" .CE
.\"	End code excerpt.
.\"
.\" .VS ?version? ?br?
.\"	Begin vertical sidebar, for use in marking newly-changed parts
.\"	of man pages.  The first argument is ignored and used for recording
.\"	the version when the .VS was added, so that the sidebars can be
.\"	found and removed when they reach a certain age.  If another argument
.\"	is present, then a line break is forced before starting the sidebar.
.\"
.\" .VE
.\"	End of vertical sidebar.
.\"
.\" .DS
.\"	Begin an indented unfilled display.
.\"
.\" .DE
.\"	End of indented unfilled display.
.\"
.\" .SO ?manpage?
.\"	Start of list of standard options for a Tk widget. The manpage
.\"	argument defines where to look up the standard options; if
.\"	omitted, defaults to "options". The options follow on successive
.\"	lines, in three columns separated by tabs.
.\"
.\" .SE
.\"	End of list of standard options for a Tk widget.
.\"
.\" .OP cmdName dbName dbClass
.\"	Start of description of a specific option.  cmdName gives the
.\"	option's name as specified in the class command, dbName gives
.\"	the option's name in the option database, and dbClass gives
.\"	the option's class in the option database.
.\"
.\" .UL arg1 arg2
.\"	Print arg1 underlined, then print arg2 normally.
.\"
.\" .QW arg1 ?arg2?
.\"	Print arg1 in quotes, then arg2 normally (for trailing punctuation).
.\"
.\" .PQ arg1 ?arg2?
.\"	Print an open parenthesis, arg1 in quotes, then arg2 normally
.\"	(for trailing punctuation) and then a closing parenthesis.
.\"
.\" RCS: @(#) $Id: man.macros,v 1.9 2008/01/29 15:32:33 dkf Exp $
.\"
.\"	# Set up traps and other miscellaneous stuff for Tcl/Tk man pages.
.if t .wh -1.3i ^B
.nr ^l \n(.l
.ad b
.\"	# Start an argument description
.de AP
.ie !"\\$4"" .TP \\$4
.el \{\
.   ie !"\\$2"" .TP \\n()Cu
.   el          .TP 15
.\}
.ta \\n()Au \\n()Bu
.ie !"\\$3"" \{\
\&\\$1 \\fI\\$2\\fP (\\$3)
.\".b
.\}
.el \{\
.br
.ie !"\\$2"" \{\
\&\\$1	\\fI\\$2\\fP
.\}
.el \{\
\&\\fI\\$1\\fP
.\}
.\}
..
.\"	# define tabbing values for .AP
.de AS
.nr )A 10n
.if !"\\$1"" .nr )A \\w'\\$1'u+3n
.nr )B \\n()Au+15n
.\"
.if !"\\$2"" .nr )B \\w'\\$2'u+\\n()Au+3n
.nr )C \\n()Bu+\\w'(in/out)'u+2n
..
.AS Tcl_Interp Tcl_CreateInterp in/out
.\"	# BS - start boxed text
.\"	# ^y = starting y location
.\"	# ^b = 1
.de BS
.br
.mk ^y
.nr ^b 1u
.if n .nf
.if n .ti 0
.if n \l'\\n(.lu\(ul'
.if n .fi
..
.\"	# BE - end boxed text (draw box now)
.de BE
.nf
.ti 0
.mk ^t
.ie n \l'\\n(^lu\(ul'
.el \{\
.\"	Draw four-sided box normally, but don't draw top of
.\"	box if the box started on an earlier page.
.ie !\\n(^b-1 \{\
\h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\l'\\n(^lu+3n\(ul'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\l'|0u-1.5n\(ul'
.\}
.el \}\
\h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\h'\\n(^lu+3n'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\l'|0u-1.5n\(ul'
.\}
.\}
.fi
.br
.nr ^b 0
..
.\"	# VS - start vertical sidebar
.\"	# ^Y = starting y location
.\"	# ^v = 1 (for troff;  for nroff this doesn't matter)
.de VS
.if !"\\$2"" .br
.mk ^Y
.ie n 'mc \s12\(br\s0
.el .nr ^v 1u
..
.\"	# VE - end of vertical sidebar
.de VE
.ie n 'mc
.el \{\
.ev 2
.nf
.ti 0
.mk ^t
\h'|\\n(^lu+3n'\L'|\\n(^Yu-1v\(bv'\v'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^Yu'\h'-|\\n(^lu+3n'
.sp -1
.fi
.ev
.\}
.nr ^v 0
..
.\"	# Special macro to handle page bottom:  finish off current
.\"	# box/sidebar if in box/sidebar mode, then invoked standard
.\"	# page bottom macro.
.de ^B
.ev 2
'ti 0
'nf
.mk ^t
.if \\n(^b \{\
.\"	Draw three-sided box if this is the box's first page,
.\"	draw two sides but no top otherwise.
.ie !\\n(^b-1 \h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\l'\\n(^lu+3n\(ul'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\h'|0u'\c
.el \h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\h'\\n(^lu+3n'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\h'|0u'\c
.\}
.if \\n(^v \{\
.nr ^x \\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^Yu
\kx\h'-\\nxu'\h'|\\n(^lu+3n'\ky\L'-\\n(^xu'\v'\\n(^xu'\h'|0u'\c
.\}
.bp
'fi
.ev
.if \\n(^b \{\
.mk ^y
.nr ^b 2
.\}
.if \\n(^v \{\
.mk ^Y
.\}
..
.\"	# DS - begin display
.de DS
.RS
.nf
.sp
..
.\"	# DE - end display
.de DE
.fi
.RE
.sp
..
.\"	# SO - start of list of standard options
.de SO
'ie '\\$1'' .ds So \\fBoptions\\fR
'el .ds So \\fB\\$1\\fR
.SH "STANDARD OPTIONS"
.LP
.nf
.ta 5.5c 11c
.ft B
..
.\"	# SE - end of list of standard options
.de SE
.fi
.ft R
.LP
See the \\*(So manual entry for details on the standard options.
..
.\"	# OP - start of full description for a single option
.de OP
.LP
.nf
.ta 4c
Command-Line Name:	\\fB\\$1\\fR
Database Name:	\\fB\\$2\\fR
Database Class:	\\fB\\$3\\fR
.fi
.IP
..
.\"	# CS - begin code excerpt
.de CS
.RS
.nf
.ta .25i .5i .75i 1i
..
.\"	# CE - end code excerpt
.de CE
.fi
.RE
..
.\"	# UL - underline word
.de UL
\\$1\l'|0\(ul'\\$2
..
.\"	# QW - apply quotation marks to word
.de QW
.ie '\\*(lq'"' ``\\$1''\\$2
.\"" fix emacs highlighting
.el \\*(lq\\$1\\*(rq\\$2
..
.\"	# PQ - apply parens and quotation marks to word
.de PQ
.ie '\\*(lq'"' (``\\$1''\\$2)\\$3
.\"" fix emacs highlighting
.el (\\*(lq\\$1\\*(rq\\$2)\\$3
..
.\"	# QR - quoted range
.de QR
.ie '\\*(lq'"' ``\\$1''\\-``\\$2''\\$3
.\"" fix emacs highlighting
.el \\*(lq\\$1\\*(rq\\-\\*(lq\\$2\\*(rq\\$3
..
.\"	# MT - "empty" string
.de MT
.QW ""
..
.TH Tk_MaintainGeometry 3 4.0 Tk "Tk Library Procedures"
.BS
.SH NAME
Tk_MaintainGeometry, Tk_UnmaintainGeometry \- maintain geometry of one window relative to another
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <tk.h>\fR
.sp
\fBTk_MaintainGeometry\fR(\fIslave, master, x, y, width, height\fR)
.sp
\fBTk_UnmaintainGeometry\fR(\fIslave, master\fR)
.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS Tk_Window master
.AP Tk_Window slave in
Window whose geometry is to be controlled.
.AP Tk_Window master in
Window relative to which \fIslave\fR's geometry will be controlled.
.AP int x in
Desired x-coordinate of \fIslave\fR in \fImaster\fR, measured in pixels
from the inside of \fImaster\fR's left border to the outside of
\fIslave\fR's left border.
.AP int y in
Desired y-coordinate of \fIslave\fR in \fImaster\fR, measured in pixels
from the inside of \fImaster\fR's top border to the outside of
\fIslave\fR's top border.
.AP int width in
Desired width for \fIslave\fR, in pixels.
.AP int height in
Desired height for \fIslave\fR, in pixels.
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBTk_MaintainGeometry\fR and \fBTk_UnmaintainGeometry\fR make it
easier for geometry managers to deal with slaves whose masters are not
their parents.
Three problems arise if the master for a slave is not its parent:
.IP [1]
The x- and y-position of the slave must be translated from the
coordinate system of the master to that of the parent before
positioning the slave.
.IP [2]
If the master window, or any of its ancestors up to the slave's
parent, is moved, then the slave must be repositioned within its
parent in order to maintain the correct position relative to the
master.
.IP [3]
If the master or one of its ancestors is mapped or unmapped, then
the slave must be mapped or unmapped to correspond.
.LP
None of these problems is an issue if the parent and master are
the same.  For example, if the master or one of its ancestors
is unmapped, the slave is automatically removed by the screen
by X.
.PP
\fBTk_MaintainGeometry\fR deals with these problems for slaves
whose masters are not their parents, as well as handling the simpler
case of slaves whose masters are their parents.
\fBTk_MaintainGeometry\fR is typically called by a window manager
once it has decided where a slave should be positioned relative
to its master.
\fBTk_MaintainGeometry\fR translates the coordinates to the
coordinate system of \fIslave\fR's parent and then moves and
resizes the slave appropriately.
Furthermore, it remembers the desired position and creates event
handlers to monitor the master and all of its ancestors up
to (but not including) the slave's parent.
If any of these windows is moved, mapped, or unmapped,
the slave will be adjusted so that it is mapped only when the
master is mapped and its geometry relative to the master
remains as specified by \fIx\fR, \fIy\fR, \fIwidth\fR, and
\fIheight\fR.
.PP
When a window manager relinquishes control over a window, or
if it decides that it does not want the window to appear on the
screen under any conditions, it calls \fBTk_UnmaintainGeometry\fR.
\fBTk_UnmaintainGeometry\fR unmaps the window and cancels any
previous calls to \fBTk_MaintainGeometry\fR for the
\fImaster\fR\-\fIslave\fR pair, so that the slave's
geometry and mapped state are no longer maintained
automatically.
\fBTk_UnmaintainGeometry\fR need not be called by a geometry
manager if the slave, the master, or any of the master's ancestors
is destroyed:  Tk will call it automatically.
.PP
If \fBTk_MaintainGeometry\fR is called repeatedly for the same
\fImaster\fR\-\fIslave\fR pair, the information from the most
recent call supersedes any older information.
If \fBTk_UnmaintainGeometry\fR is called for a \fImaster\fR\-\fIslave\fR
pair that is is not currently managed, the call has no effect.
.SH KEYWORDS
geometry manager, map, master, parent, position, slave, unmap
