.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2017  Apple Inc. All rights reserved.
.Dd May 9, 2017
.Dt "atos" 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm atos
.Nd convert numeric addresses to symbols of binary images or processes
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm atos
.Op Fl o Ar <binary-image-file>
.Op Fl p Ar <pid> | Ar <partial-executable-name>
.Op Fl arch Ar architecture
.Op Fl l Ar <load-address>
.Op Fl s Ar <slide>
.Op Fl printHeader
.Op Fl fullPath
.Op Fl f Ar <address-input-file>
.Op <address> ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
command converts numeric addresses to their symbolic equivalents.  If full debug symbol information is available,
for example in a .app.dSYM sitting beside a .app, then the output of atos will include file name and source line
number information.
.Pp
The input addresses may be given in one of three ways:
.Bl -enum
.It
A list of addresses at the end of the argument list.
.It
Using the
.Fl f Ar <address-input-file>
argument to specify the path of an input file containing whitespace-separated numeric addresses.
.It
If no addresses were directly specified, 
.Nm
enters an interactive mode, reading addresses from stdin.
.El
.Pp
The symbols are found in either a binary image file or in a currently executing process, as specified by:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl o Ar <binary-image-file>
The path to a binary image file in which to look up symbols.
.It Fl p Ar <pid> | Ar <partial-executable-name>
The process ID or the partial name of a currently executing process in which to look up symbols.
.El
.Pp
Multiple process IDs or paths can be specified if necessary, and the two can be mixed in any order.
When working with a Mach-O binary image file, 
.Nm
considers only addresses and symbols defined in that binary image file, at their default locations (unless the -l or -s option is given). 
When working with a running process, 
.Nm
considers addresses and symbols defined in all binary images currently loaded by that process, at their loaded locations.
.Pp
The following additional options are available.
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl arch Ar architecture
The particular architecure of a binary image file in which to look up symbols.
.It Fl l Ar <load-address>
The load address of the binary image.  This value is always assumed to be in hex, even without a "0x" prefix.  The input addresses are assumed to be in a binary image with that load address.  Load addresses for binary
images can be found in the Binary Images: section at the bottom of crash, sample, leaks, and malloc_history reports.
.It Fl s Ar <slide>
The slide value of the binary image -- this is the difference between the load address of a binary image, and the address at which the binary image was built.  
This slide value is subtracted from the input addresses.  
It is usually easier to directly specify the load address with the
.Fl l
argument than to manually calculate a slide value.
.It Fl printHeader
If a process was specified, the first line of atos output should be a header of the form "Looking up symbols in process <pid> named:  <process-name>".
This is primarily used when
.Nm
is invoked as part of a stackshot(1) run, for verification of the process ID and name.
.It Fl fullPath
Print the full path of the source files.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLE
A stripped, optimized version of Sketch was built as an x86_64 position-independent executable (PIE) into /BuildProducts/Release.
Full debug symbol information is available in Sketch.app.dSYM, which sits alongside Sketch.app.  When Sketch.app was run,
the Sketch binary (which was built at 0x100000000) was loaded at 0x10acde000.  Running 'sample Sketch' showed 3 addresses that
we want to get symbol information for -- 0x10acea1d3, 0x10ace4bea, and 0x10ace4b7a.
.Pp
First notice that the .dSYM is next to the .app:
.Bd -literal
% ls -1 /BuildProducts/Release/
Sketch.app
Sketch.app.dSYM
.Ed
.Pp
Now, to symbolicate, we run atos with the
.Fl o
flag specifying the path to the actual Sketch executable (not the .app wrapper), the
.Fl arch Ar x86_64
flag, and the
.Fl l Ar 0x10acde000
flag to specify the load address.
.Bd -literal
% atos -o /BuildProducts/Release/Sketch.app/Contents/MacOS/Sketch -arch x86_64 -l 0x10acde000  0x10acea1d3 0x10ace4bea 0x10ace4b7a
-[SKTGraphicView drawRect:] (in Sketch) (SKTGraphicView.m:445)
-[SKTGraphic drawHandlesInView:] (in Sketch) (NSGeometry.h:110)
-[SKTGraphic drawHandleInView:atPoint:] (in Sketch) (SKTGraphic.m:490)
.Ed
.Pp
.Sh GETTING SYMBOLS FOR A DIFFERENT MACHINE ARCHITECTURE
It is possible to get symbols for addresses from a different machine architecture than the system on which
.Nm
is running.  For example, when running
.Nm
on an Intel-based system, one may wish to get the symbol for an address that came from a backtrace of a process running on an ARM device.  To do so, use the
.Fl arch
flag to specify the desired architecture (such as i386 or arm) and pass in a corresponding symbol-rich Mach-O binary image file with a binary image of the corresponding architecture (such as a Universal Binary).
