.\"
.\" cancel man page for CUPS.
.\"
.\" Copyright © 2007-2019 by Apple Inc.
.\" Copyright © 1997-2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\" Licensed under Apache License v2.0.  See the file "LICENSE" for more
.\" information.
.\"
.TH cancel 1 "CUPS" "26 April 2019" "Apple Inc."
.SH NAME
cancel \- cancel jobs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cancel
[
.B \-E
] [
.B \-U
.I username
] [
.B \-a
] [
.B \-h
.I hostname[:port]
] [
.B \-u
.I username
] [
.B \-x
] [
.I id
] [
.I destination
] [
.I destination\-id
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBcancel\fR command cancels print jobs.
If no \fIdestination\fR or \fIid\fR is specified, the currently printing job on the default destination is canceled.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are recognized by \fBcancel\fR:
.TP 5
.B \-a
Cancel all jobs on the named destination, or all jobs on all
destinations if none is provided.
.TP 5
.B \-E
Forces encryption when connecting to the server.
.TP 5
\fB\-h \fIhostname\fR[\fI:port\fR]
Specifies an alternate server.
.TP 5
\fB\-U \fIusername\fR
Specifies the username to use when connecting to the server.
.TP 5
\fB\-u \fIusername\fR
Cancels jobs owned by \fIusername\fR.
.TP 5
.B \-x
Deletes job data files in addition to canceling.
.SH CONFORMING TO
Unlike the System V printing system, CUPS allows printer names to contain any printable character except SPACE, TAB, "/", or "#". Also, printer and class names are \fInot\fR case-sensitive.
.SH EXAMPLES
Cancel the current print job:
.nf

    cancel

.fi
Cancel job "myprinter-42":
.nf

    cancel myprinter\-42

.fi
Cancel all jobs:
.nf

    cancel \-a
.fi
.SH NOTES
Administrators wishing to prevent unauthorized cancellation of jobs via the \fI\-u\fR option should require authentication for Cancel-Jobs operations in
.BR cupsd.conf (5).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cupsd.conf (5),
.BR lp (1),
.BR lpmove (8),
.BR lpstat (1),
CUPS Online Help (http://localhost:631/help)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \[co] 2007-2019 by Apple Inc.
