.Dd December 3, 2003       \" DATE 
.Dt db_verify 1       \" Program name and manual section number 
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm db_verify
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line. 
.\" Use .Nm macro to designate other names for the documented program.
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Op Fl NoqV
.Op Fl h Ar home
.Op Fl P Ar password
file ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
The
.Nm
utility verifies the structure of one or more files and the databases they contain.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width
.It Fl h
Specify a home directory for the database environment; by default, the current working directory is used.
.It Fl o
Skip the database checks for btree and duplicate sort order and for hashing.
.Pp
If the file being verified contains databases with non-default comparison or hashing configurations, calling the 
.Nm
utility without the -o flag will usually return failure. The -o flag causes
.Nm
to ignore database sort or hash ordering and allows
.Nm
to be used on these files. To fully verify these files, verify them explicitly using the DB->verify method, after configuring the correct comparison or hashing functions.
.It Fl N
Do not acquire shared region mutexes while running. Other problems, such as potentially fatal errors in Berkeley DB, will be ignored as well. This option is intended only for debugging errors, and should not be used under any other circumstances.
.It Fl P
Specify an environment password. Although Berkeley DB utilities overwrite password strings as soon as possible, be aware there may be a window of vulnerability on systems where unprivileged users can see command-line arguments or where utilities are not able to overwrite the memory containing the command-line arguments.
.It Fl q
Suppress the printing of any error descriptions, simply exit success or failure.
.It Fl V
Write the library version number to the standard output, and exit.
.El
.Pp
.Em The
.Nm
utility does not perform any locking, even in Berkeley DB environments that are configured with a locking subsystem. As such, it should only be used on files that are not being modified by another thread of control.
.Pp
The
.Nm
utility may be used with a Berkeley DB environment (as described for the -h option, the environment variable DB_HOME, or because the utility was run in a directory containing a Berkeley DB environment). In order to avoid environment corruption when using a Berkeley DB environment, 
.Nm
should always be given the chance to detach from the environment and exit gracefully. To cause 
.Nm
to release all environment resources and exit cleanly, send it an interrupt signal (SIGINT).
.Pp
The 
.Nm
utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.
.Pp
.Sh ENVIRONMENT      \" May not be needed
.Bl -tag -width "DB_HOME" \" ENV_VAR_1 is width of the string ENV_VAR_1
.It Ev DB_HOME
If the -h option is not specified and the environment variable DB_HOME is set, it is used as the path of the database home, as described in DB_ENV->open.
.El                      
.\" .Sh FILES                \" File used or created by the topic of the man page
.\" .Bl -tag -width "/Users/joeuser/Library/really_long_file_name" -compact
.\" .It Pa /usr/share/file_name
.\" FILE_1description
.\" .It Pa /Users/joeuser/Library/really_long_file_name
.\" FILE_2 description
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS       \" May not be needed
.\" .Bl -diag
.\" .It Diagnostic Tag
.\" Diagnostic informtion here.
.\" .It Diagnostic Tag
.\" Diagnostic informtion here.
.\" .El
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.Xr db_archive 1 ,
.Xr db_checkpoint 1 ,
.Xr db_deadlock 1 ,
.Xr db_dump 1 ,
.Xr db_load 1 ,
.Xr db_printlog 1 ,
.Xr db_recover 1 ,
.Xr db_stat 1 ,
.Xr db_upgrade 1
.\" .Sh BUGS              \" Document known, unremedied bugs 
.\" .Sh HISTORY           \" Document history if command behaves in a unique manner 
