.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2019 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.
.Dd Oct. 4, 2019
.Dt "leaks" 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm leaks
.Nd Search a process's memory for unreferenced malloc buffers
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm leaks
.Op options
.Ar pid | partial-executable-name | memory-graph-file
.Nm leaks
.Op options
.Fl atExit \- Ar command
.Ss Options:
.Op Fl list
.Op Fl groupByType
.Op Fl nostacks
.Op Fl nosources
.Op Fl quiet
.Op Fl exclude Ar symbol
.Op Fl traceTree Ar address
.Op Fl outputGraph Ar path
.Op Fl fullContent
.Op Fl readonlyContent
.Op Fl noContent
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm leaks
identifies leaked memory -- memory that the application has allocated, but has been lost and cannot be freed.
Specifically,
.Nm leaks
examines a specified process's memory for values that may be pointers to malloc-allocated buffers.
Any buffer reachable from a pointer in writable global memory (e.g., __DATA segments), a register, or on the stack is assumed to be memory in use.
Any buffer reachable from a pointer in a reachable malloc-allocated buffer is also assumed to be in use.
The buffers which are not reachable are leaks; the buffers could never be freed because no pointer exists in memory to the buffer, and thus free()
could never be called for these buffers.
Such buffers waste memory; removing
them can reduce swapping and memory usage.
Leaks are particularly dangerous for long-running programs, for eventually the leaks could fill memory and cause the application to crash.
.Pp
.Nm leaks
requires one argument -- either the process ID or the full or partial executable name
of the process to examine, or the pathname of a memory graph file generated by
.Nm leaks
or the Xcode Memory Graph Debugger.  (Unless the
.Fl atExit \- Ar command
argument is given, see below for more details.)
.Pp
Once the leaked buffers have been identified,
.Nm leaks
analyzes them to find "root leaks" (those which are not referenced
by any other buffer) and "root cycles" (cycles of objects
which reference or retain each other, but which are not referenced by any other
buffer outside the cycle).  Then, it identifies the tree of buffers
which are referenced by those root leaks and root cycles, if any.
.Nm leaks
then prints each such "leak tree".
.Pp
If the MallocStackLogging environment variable was set when the
application was launched, 
.Nm leaks
also prints
a stack trace describing where the buffer was allocated.
.Pp
.Sh MEMORY GRAPH FILES
A memory graph file archives the memory state of a process
for further analysis at a later time, on a different machine,
or by other people.  It includes information about all VM and malloc
nodes in the process, and the references between them.
Memory graph files can be generated by
.Nm leaks
using the
.Fl outputGraph
option (and the
.Fl fullContent
option if desired), or by examining a live process with the Xcode Memory Graph Debugger
then using the Export Memory Graph menu item from the File menu.
The standard filename suffix for memory graph files is ".memgraph".
These files can be used as input to various commands including
.Nm leaks,
.Nm heap,
.Nm stringdups,
.Nm vmmap,
.Nm malloc_history,
.Nm footprint,
and the Xcode Memory Graph Debugger.
.Pp
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width "-outputGraph"
.It Fl list
Print the leaks as a list ("classic"-style) rather than as a tree.
Warning: this option may be removed in the future.
.It Fl groupByType
When printing a tree of leaked objects, group the children of a node in the tree
by type, rather than showing individual instances.
.It Fl nostacks
Do not print backtraces of leaked blocks even if the target process has the
MallocStackLogging environment variable set.
.It Fl nosources
Do not print sourceFile:lineNumber in backtraces.  This can improve performance
when examining a process with a huge number of debug symbols.
.It Fl quiet
Do not print process description header or binary image list.
.It Fl exclude Ar symbol
Exclude leaked blocks whose backtraces include the specified symbol.  This option
can be repeated for multiple symbols.  This allows ignoring leaks that, for
example, are allocated in libraries for which you do not have source code.
.It Fl traceTree Ar address
Print a reverse tree of references, from the given block up to the process 'roots'
(e.g., global data, registers, or locations on stacks) to the given block.  This is
useful for determining what is holding onto a buffer such that it has not been freed,
and is similar to the information shown in the Xcode Memory Graph Debugger.
.It Fl outputGraph Ar path
Generate a memory graph file containing information about all VM and malloc
nodes, and the references between them.
.Ar path
can be a path to a file, or just a directory name; in the latter case
a filename with the ".memgraph" suffix will be generated.
.Pp
By default (for security) when generating a memory graph file, descriptions
of the content of some objects will be included but ONLY if they are backed
by read-only memory in Mach-O binary images or the dyld shared cache.  To
store full content pass the
.Fl fullContent
flag.
.It Fl fullContent
When generating a memory graph file, include descriptions of the content of various objects,
as would be shown by
.Ic "heap <pid> -addresses all",
and as needed by
.Ic "stringdups <pid>".
(Full content is the default when targeting a live process, without generating a memory graph file.)
.It Fl readonlyContent
When running leaks against a live target process, print descriptions
of the content of memory only if they are backed by read-only memory.
(Read-only content is the default when generating memory graph files.)
.It Fl noContent
Do not print the descriptions of the content of leaked memory,
or save descriptions of allocation memory into memory graph files.
Although that information can be useful for recognizing the contents
of the buffer and understanding why it might be leaked,
it could expose confidential information from the process if
you, for example, file bug reports with that output included.
.It Fl atExit \- Ar command
Launches the specified command and runs
.Nm leaks
when that process exits.  The
.Fl atExit
argument should be the last argument, followed
by -- and the command to launch.
For example:
.Bd -literal
% leaks -quiet -atExit -- /bin/ls -lt /tmp/
.Ed
.El
.Pp
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
The
.Nm leaks
command may detect more leaks if the target process is run with the MallocScribble environment variable.
If this variable is set then when malloc blocks are deallocated they are filled with 0x55 bytes, thus
overwriting any "stale" data such as pointers remaining in those blocks.  This reduces the number of
false pointers remaining in the process memory.
.Pp
.Sh EXIT STATUS
The
.Nm leaks
command exits with one of the following values:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width flag -compact
.It Li 0
No leaks were detected.
.It Li 1
One or more leaks were detected.
.It Li \*(Gt1
An error occurred.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr malloc 3 ,
.Xr heap 1 , 
.Xr malloc_history 1 ,
.Xr stringdups 1 ,
.Xr vmmap 1 ,
.Xr footprint 1 ,
.Xr DevToolsSecurity 1
.Pp
The Xcode Memory Graph Debuggger graphically shows malloc blocks and VM regions (both leaked and non-leaked),
and the references between them.
.Pp
The Xcode developer tools also include Instruments, a graphical application that can give information similar to that provided by
.Nm leaks.
The Allocations instrument graphically displays dynamic, real-time
information about the object and memory use in an application, including backtraces of where the allocations
occurred.  The Leaks instrument performs memory leak analysis.
