.TH POSTSUPER 1 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
postsuper
\-
Postfix superintendent
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
.fi
\fBpostsuper\fR [\fB\-psSv\fR]
[\fB\-c \fIconfig_dir\fR] [\fB\-d \fIqueue_id\fR]
        [\fB\-h \fIqueue_id\fR] [\fB\-H \fIqueue_id\fR]
        [\fB\-r \fIqueue_id\fR] [\fIdirectory ...\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
The \fBpostsuper\fR(1) command does maintenance jobs on the Postfix
queue. Use of the command is restricted to the superuser.
See the \fBpostqueue\fR(1) command for unprivileged queue operations
such as listing or flushing the mail queue.

By default, \fBpostsuper\fR(1) performs the operations
requested with the
\fB\-s\fR and \fB\-p\fR command\-line options on all Postfix queue
directories \- this includes the \fBincoming\fR, \fBactive\fR and
\fBdeferred\fR directories with mail files and the \fBbounce\fR,
\fBdefer\fR, \fBtrace\fR and \fBflush\fR directories with log files.

Options:
.IP "\fB\-c \fIconfig_dir\fR"
The \fBmain.cf\fR configuration file is in the named directory
instead of the default configuration directory. See also the
MAIL_CONFIG environment setting below.
.IP "\fB\-d \fIqueue_id\fR"
Delete one message with the named queue ID from the named
mail queue(s) (default: \fBhold\fR, \fBincoming\fR, \fBactive\fR and
\fBdeferred\fR).

To delete multiple files, specify the \fB\-d\fR option multiple
times, or specify a \fIqueue_id\fR of \fB\-\fR to read queue IDs
from standard input. For example, to delete all mail
with exactly one recipient \fBuser@example.com\fR:
.sp
.nf
mailq | tail \-n +2 | grep \-v '^ *(' | awk  'BEGIN { RS = "" }
    # $7=sender, $8=recipient1, $9=recipient2
    { if ($8 == "user@example.com" && $9 == "")
          print $1 }
 ' | tr \-d '*!' | postsuper \-d \-
.fi
.sp
Specify "\fB\-d ALL\fR" to remove all messages; for example, specify
"\fB\-d ALL deferred\fR" to delete all mail in the \fBdeferred\fR queue.
As a safety measure, the word \fBALL\fR must be specified in upper
case.
.sp
Warning: Postfix queue IDs are reused (always with Postfix
<= 2.8; and with Postfix >= 2.9 when enable_long_queue_ids=no).
There is a very small possibility that postsuper deletes the
wrong message file when it is executed while the Postfix mail
system is delivering mail.
.sp
The scenario is as follows:
.RS
.IP 1)
The Postfix queue manager deletes the message that \fBpostsuper\fR(1)
is asked to delete, because Postfix is finished with the
message (it is delivered, or it is returned to the sender).
.IP 2)
New mail arrives, and the new message is given the same queue ID
as the message that \fBpostsuper\fR(1) is supposed to delete.
The probability for reusing a deleted queue ID is about 1 in 2**15
(the number of different microsecond values that the system clock
can distinguish within a second).
.IP 3)
\fBpostsuper\fR(1) deletes the new message, instead of the old
message that it should have deleted.
.RE
.IP "\fB\-h \fIqueue_id\fR"
Put mail "on hold" so that no attempt is made to deliver it.
Move one message with the named queue ID from the named
mail queue(s) (default: \fBincoming\fR, \fBactive\fR and
\fBdeferred\fR) to the \fBhold\fR queue.

To hold multiple files, specify the \fB\-h\fR option multiple
times, or specify a \fIqueue_id\fR of \fB\-\fR to read queue IDs
from standard input.
.sp
Specify "\fB\-h ALL\fR" to hold all messages; for example, specify
"\fB\-h ALL deferred\fR" to hold all mail in the \fBdeferred\fR queue.
As a safety measure, the word \fBALL\fR must be specified in upper
case.
.sp
Note: while mail is "on hold" it will not expire when its
time in the queue exceeds the \fBmaximal_queue_lifetime\fR
or \fBbounce_queue_lifetime\fR setting. It becomes subject to
expiration after it is released from "hold".
.sp
This feature is available in Postfix 2.0 and later.
.IP "\fB\-H \fIqueue_id\fR"
Release mail that was put "on hold".
Move one message with the named queue ID from the named
mail queue(s) (default: \fBhold\fR) to the \fBdeferred\fR queue.

To release multiple files, specify the \fB\-H\fR option multiple
times, or specify a \fIqueue_id\fR of \fB\-\fR to read queue IDs
from standard input.
.sp
Note: specify "\fBpostsuper \-r\fR" to release mail that was kept on
hold for a significant fraction of \fB$maximal_queue_lifetime\fR
or \fB$bounce_queue_lifetime\fR, or longer.
.sp
Specify "\fB\-H ALL\fR" to release all mail that is "on hold".
As a safety measure, the word \fBALL\fR must be specified in upper
case.
.sp
This feature is available in Postfix 2.0 and later.
.IP \fB\-p\fR
Purge old temporary files that are left over after system or
software crashes.
.IP "\fB\-r \fIqueue_id\fR"
Requeue the message with the named queue ID from the named
mail queue(s) (default: \fBhold\fR, \fBincoming\fR, \fBactive\fR and
\fBdeferred\fR).

To requeue multiple files, specify the \fB\-r\fR option multiple
times, or specify a \fIqueue_id\fR of \fB\-\fR to read queue IDs
from standard input.
.sp
Specify "\fB\-r ALL\fR" to requeue all messages. As a safety
measure, the word \fBALL\fR must be specified in upper case.
.sp
A requeued message is moved to the \fBmaildrop\fR queue,
from where it is copied by the \fBpickup\fR(8) and
\fBcleanup\fR(8) daemons to a new queue file. In many
respects its handling differs from that of a new local
submission.
.RS
.IP \(bu
The message is not subjected to the smtpd_milters or
non_smtpd_milters settings.  When mail has passed through
an external content filter, this would produce incorrect
results with Milter applications that depend on original
SMTP connection state information.
.IP \(bu
The message is subjected again to mail address rewriting
and substitution.  This is useful when rewriting rules or
virtual mappings have changed.
.sp
The address rewriting context (local or remote) is the same
as when the message was received.
.IP \(bu
The message is subjected to the same content_filter settings
(if any) as used for new local mail submissions.  This is
useful when content_filter settings have changed.
.RE
.IP
Warning: Postfix queue IDs are reused (always with Postfix
<= 2.8; and with Postfix >= 2.9 when enable_long_queue_ids=no).
There is a very small possibility that \fBpostsuper\fR(1) requeues
the wrong message file when it is executed while the Postfix mail
system is running, but no harm should be done.
.sp
This feature is available in Postfix 1.1 and later.
.IP \fB\-s\fR
Structure check and structure repair.  This should be done once
before Postfix startup.
.RS
.IP \(bu
Rename files whose name does not match the message file inode
number. This operation is necessary after restoring a mail
queue from a different machine or from backup, when queue
files were created with Postfix <= 2.8 or with
"enable_long_queue_ids = no".
.IP \(bu
Move queue files that are in the wrong place in the file system
hierarchy and remove subdirectories that are no longer needed.
File position rearrangements are necessary after a change in the
\fBhash_queue_names\fR and/or \fBhash_queue_depth\fR
configuration parameters.
.IP \(bu
Rename queue files created with "enable_long_queue_ids =
yes" to short names, for migration to Postfix <= 2.8.  The
procedure is as follows:
.sp
.nf
.na
# postfix stop
# postconf enable_long_queue_ids=no
# postsuper
.ad
.fi
.sp
Run \fBpostsuper\fR(1) repeatedly until it stops reporting
file name changes.
.RE
.IP \fB\-S\fR
A redundant version of \fB\-s\fR that requires that long
file names also match the message file inode number. This
option exists for testing purposes, and is available with
Postfix 2.9 and later.
.IP \fB\-v\fR
Enable verbose logging for debugging purposes. Multiple \fB\-v\fR
options make the software increasingly verbose.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Problems are reported to the standard error stream and to
\fBsyslogd\fR(8).

\fBpostsuper\fR(1) reports the number of messages deleted with \fB\-d\fR,
the number of messages requeued with \fB\-r\fR, and the number of
messages whose queue file name was fixed with \fB\-s\fR. The report
is written to the standard error stream and to \fBsyslogd\fR(8).
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP MAIL_CONFIG
Directory with the \fBmain.cf\fR file.
.SH BUGS
.ad
.fi
Mail that is not sanitized by Postfix (i.e. mail in the \fBmaildrop\fR
queue) cannot be placed "on hold".
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
The following \fBmain.cf\fR parameters are especially relevant to
this program.
The text below provides only a parameter summary. See
\fBpostconf\fR(5) for more details including examples.
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
The default location of the Postfix main.cf and master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBhash_queue_depth (1)\fR"
The number of subdirectory levels for queue directories listed with
the hash_queue_names parameter.
.IP "\fBhash_queue_names (deferred, defer)\fR"
The names of queue directories that are split across multiple
subdirectory levels.
.IP "\fBimport_environment (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
The list of environment parameters that a privileged Postfix
process will import from a non\-Postfix parent process, or name=value
environment overrides.
.IP "\fBqueue_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
The location of the Postfix top\-level queue directory.
.IP "\fBsyslog_facility (mail)\fR"
The syslog facility of Postfix logging.
.IP "\fBsyslog_name (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
A prefix that is prepended to the process name in syslog
records, so that, for example, "smtpd" becomes "prefix/smtpd".
.PP
Available in Postfix version 2.9 and later:
.IP "\fBenable_long_queue_ids (no)\fR"
Enable long, non\-repeating, queue IDs (queue file names).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
sendmail(1), Sendmail\-compatible user interface
postqueue(1), unprivileged queue operations
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
The Secure Mailer license must be distributed with this software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA

Wietse Venema
Google, Inc.
111 8th Avenue
New York, NY 10011, USA
