.\"
.\" ppdi man page for CUPS.
.\"
.\" Copyright © 2007-2019 by Apple Inc.
.\" Copyright © 1997-2007 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\" Licensed under Apache License v2.0.  See the file "LICENSE" for more
.\" information.
.\"
.TH ppdi 1 "CUPS" "26 April 2019" "Apple Inc."
.SH NAME
ppdi \- import ppd files (deprecated)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ppdi
[
.B \-I
.I include-directory
] [
.B \-o
.I source-file
]
.I ppd-file
[ ...
.I ppd-file
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBppdi\fR imports one or more PPD files into a PPD compiler source file.
Multiple languages of the same PPD file are merged into a single printer definition to facilitate accurate changes for all localizations.
\fBThis program is deprecated and will be removed in a future release of CUPS.\fR
.SH OPTIONS
\fBppdi\fR supports the following options:
.TP 5
\fB\-I \fIinclude-directory\fR
Specifies an alternate include directory.
Multiple \fI-I\fR options can be supplied to add additional directories.
.TP 5
\fB\-o \fIsource-file\fR
Specifies the PPD source file to update.
If the source file does not exist, a new source file is created.
Otherwise the existing file is merged with the new PPD file(s) on the command-line.
If no source file is specified, the filename \fIppdi.drv\fR is used.
.SH NOTES
PPD files are deprecated and will no longer be supported in a future feature release of CUPS.
Printers that do not support IPP can be supported using applications such as
.BR ippeveprinter (1).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ppdc (1),
.BR ppdhtml (1),
.BR ppdmerge (1),
.BR ppdpo (1),
.BR ppdcfile (5),
CUPS Online Help (http://localhost:631/help)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \[co] 2007-2019 by Apple Inc.
