.\"
.\" ppdpo man page for CUPS.
.\"
.\" Copyright © 2007-2019 by Apple Inc.
.\" Copyright © 1997-2007 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\" Licensed under Apache License v2.0.  See the file "LICENSE" for more
.\" information.
.\"
.TH ppdpo 1 "CUPS" "26 April 2019" "Apple Inc."
.SH NAME
ppdpo \- ppd message catalog generator (deprecated)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ppdpo
[
\fB\-D \fIname\fR[\fB=\fIvalue\fR]
] [
.B \-I
.I include-directory
] [
.B \-o
.I output-file
]
.I source-file
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBppdpo\fR extracts UI strings from PPDC source files and updates either a GNU gettext or macOS strings format message catalog source file for translation.
\fBThis program is deprecated and will be removed in a future release of CUPS.\fR
.SH OPTIONS
\fBppdpo\fR supports the following options:
.TP 5
\fB\-D \fIname\fR[\fB=\fIvalue\fR]
Sets the named variable for use in the source file.
It is equivalent to using the \fI#define\fR directive in the source file.
.TP 5
\fB\-I \fIinclude-directory\fR
Specifies an alternate include directory.
Multiple \fI-I\fR options can be supplied to add additional directories.
.TP 5
\fB\-o \fIoutput-file\fR
Specifies the output file.
The supported extensions are \fI.po\fR or \fI.po.gz\fR for GNU gettext format message catalogs and \fI.strings\fR for macOS strings files.
.SH NOTES
PPD files are deprecated and will no longer be supported in a future feature release of CUPS.
Printers that do not support IPP can be supported using applications such as
.BR ippeveprinter (1).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ppdc (1),
.BR ppdhtml (1),
.BR ppdi (1),
.BR ppdmerge (1),
.BR ppdcfile(5),
CUPS Online Help (http://localhost:631/help)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \[co] 2007-2019 by Apple Inc.
