.\" Copyright (c) 2019 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Created by Jeremy Huddleston Sequoia on 2019.02.08.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification,
.\" are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\"    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.\"    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
.\"    and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
.\" INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
.\" PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY
.\" OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.Dd February 8, 2019
.Dt SH 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm sh
.Nd POSIX-compliant command interpreter
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Bk -words
.Op options
.Ek
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a POSIX-compliant command interpreter (shell).
It is implemented by re-execing as either
.Xr bash 1 ,
.Xr dash 1 ,
or
.Xr zsh 1
as determined by the symbolic link located at
.Pa /private/var/select/sh .
If
.Pa /private/var/select/sh
does not exist or does not point to a valid shell,
.Nm
will use one of the supported shells.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -item
.It
.Pa /private/var/select/sh
.It
.Pa $HOME/.profile
.It
.Pa /etc/profile
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr bash 1 ,
.Xr dash 1 ,
.Xr ksh 1 ,
.Xr tcsh 1 ,
.Xr zsh 1
