.\" Copyright (c) 2016, Apple Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.Dd 22 June 2016
.Dt tailspin 1
.Os "Darwin"
.Sh NAME
.Nm tailspin
.Nd configure, save and print tailspin output
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Bl -hang -compact -width "tailspin -"
.\"
.It Nm Cm info
.\"
.It Nm Cm enable
.\"
.It Nm Cm disable
.\"
.It Nm Cm set buffer-size Ar buffer-size-mb
.br .RE
.Cm ktrace-filter-descriptor Ar (add:|remove:)filter-desc
.br .RE
.Cm oncore-sampling-period Ar period-in-ns|disabled
.br .RE
.Cm full-system-sampling-period Ar period-in-ns|disabled
.El
.Bl -hang -compact -width "tailspin -"
.\"
.It Nm Cm reset Op buffer-size-mb|ktrace-filter-descriptor|oncore-sampling-period|full-system-sampling-period
.\"
.It Nm Cm save
.Op Fl r Ar reason-string
.Op Fl l Ar num-seconds
.Op Fl n
.Ar path-to-file
.\"
.It Nm Cm augment
.Op Fl s
.Op Fl d
.Op Fl l
.Op Fl L Ar path-to-log-archive
.Ar path-to-file
.\"
.It Nm Cm stat
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl s
.Ar path-to-file
.\"
.El
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm tailspin
configures the system to continuously sample callstacks of processes and select
kdebug events in the kernel trace buffer. When tailspin data is recorded to a
file, the tailspin file will contain information about the system state from
about 20s prior to the save. The tailspind daemon is a helper daemon for the
tailspin feature and should not be run manually.
.Pp
.Sh COLLECTING TAILSPIN DATA
tailspin data can be collected using the keychord when enabled:
.Xr Shift-Control-Option-Command-Comma.
When the command is completed, a Finder window will pop up with the saved
tailspin file.
.Sh SUBCOMMANDS
.Nm
uses a subcommand syntax to separate different functionality into logical groups.  Each subcommand takes its own set of options.
.Bl -tag -width "disable -"
.\" INFO
.It Cm info
Print information about the current configuration of tailspin.
.Pp
.\" ENABLE
.It Cm enable
Enable tailspin collection. Enablement persists across reboots and upgrade installs.
.Pp
.\" DISABLE
.It Cm disable
Stop tailspin collection. Disablement persists across reboots and upgrade installs. tailspin can be enabled again after it has been disabled, using the same configuration.
.\" SET
.It Cm set
Configure the 4 tunable parameters of tailspin. Any change applied will persist across reboots and upgrade installs.
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Cm buffer-size Ar buffer-size-mb
Set up the kernel trace buffer to be
.Ar buffer-size-mb
big.
.Pp
.It Cm ktrace-filter-descriptor Ar (add:|remove:)filter-desc
Apply the
.Ar filter-desc
to the tailspin configuration, thereby controlling which events are traced by tailspin.  See
.Sx FILTER DESCRIPTIONS
on the syntax of a filter. The filter may be prefixed with "add:" or "remove:" to modify an existing filter rather than replace it entirely
.It Cm oncore-sampling-period Ar period-in-ns
Set up a timer in the tailspin configuration to sample the threads that are on the CPU when the timer fires every
.Ar period-in-ns .
The minimum period allowed is 1 ms. "disabled" may be used to disable the oncore sampling timer.
.It Cm full-system-sampling-period Ar period-in-ns
Set up a timer in the tailspin configuration to sample all threads of all processes when the timer fires every
.Ar period-in-ns .
The minimum period allowed is 10 ms. "disabled" may be used to disable the full sampling timer.
.El
.\" RESET
.It Cm reset Op buffer-size-mb|ktrace-filter-descriptor|oncore-sampling-period|full-system-sampling-period
Remove all custom configuration of tailspin and reset to system default, or reset specific setting to the system default.
.\" SAVE
.It Cm save Oo Fl r Ar reason-string Oc Oo Fl l Ar num-seconds Oc Oo Fl n Oc Oo Ar path-to-file Oc
.Pp
Save the current contents of the kernel trace buffer containing tailspin data to
.Ar path-to-file .
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl r Ar reason-string
Include a key in the tailspin file indicating why it was saved. This reason can be viewed with
.Cm tailspin stat .
.It Fl l Ar num-seconds
Limit the data in tailspin file to that of the last
.Ar num-seconds .
.It Fl n
Save tailspin file without symbolicating.
.El
.\" SYMBOLICATE
.It Cm augment Oo Fl d Oc Oo Fl s Oc Oo Fl l Oc Oo Fl L path-to-log-archive Oc path-to-file
Augment the tailspin report at
.Ar path-to-file
with additional information like symbols, os logs and os signposts.
If not used with -d, needs to be run on the same device and
build on which the tailspin file was saved .
.\" STAT
.It Cm stat Oo Fl v Oc Oo Fl s Oc Ar path-to-file
Print aggregate information about the data in the tailspin file.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl v
Print layout information of tailspin file.
.It Fl s
Sort ktrace statistics by frequency of trace class/subclass. Default sorting is
by class/subclass code.
.El
.El
.Sh FILTER DESCRIPTIONS
A filter description is a comma-separated list of class and subclass specifiers that indicate which events should be traced.   A class specifier starts with
.Ql C
followed by a number between 0 and 255 inclusive, specified in either decimal or hex (when prepended with "0x"). A subclass specifier starts with
.Ql S
and takes two bytes.  The high byte is the class and the low byte is the subclass of that class.
.Pp
For example, this filter description would enable classes 0x1 and 0x25 and the subclasses 0x21 and 0x23 of class 0x5:
.Ql C1,C0x25,S0x0521,S0x0523 .
The
.Ql ALL
filter description enables events from all classes.
.Sh VIEWING TAILSPIN DATA
tailspin data can be viewed by
.Xr ktrace 1 ,
.Xr spindump 8 and
.Xr fs_usage 1 .
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Ex -std
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ktrace 1 ,
.Xr fs_usage 1 ,
.Xr spindump 8
