.\"
.\" $Id: pam_env.c,v 1.5 2002/03/27 02:36:24 bbraun Exp $
.\"
.\" Written by Dave Kinchlea <kinch@kinch.ark.com> 1997/01/31
.\" Inspired by Andrew Morgan <morgan@kernel.org>, who also supplied the 
.\" template for this file (via pam_mail)
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2002-2009 Apple Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms of Linux-PAM, with
.\" or without modification, are permitted provided that the following
.\" conditions are met:
.\" 
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain any existing copyright
.\" notice, and this entire permission notice in its entirety,
.\" including the disclaimer of warranties.
.\" 
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce all prior and current
.\" copyright notices, this list of conditions, and the following
.\" disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
.\" with the distribution.
.\" 
.\" 3. The name of any author may not be used to endorse or promote
.\" products derived from this software without their specific prior
.\" written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR(S) BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING,
.\" BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS
.\" OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
.\" ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR
.\" TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE
.\" USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
.\" DAMAGE. 
.\"
.Dd February 7, 2009
.Dt pam_env 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm pam_env
.Nd The Environment PAM module
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Op Ar service-name
.Ar function-class
.Ar control-flag
pam_env
.Op Ar options
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The Environment PAM module supports the authentication and session management function classes.  In terms of the
.Ar function-class
parameter, these are
.Dq Li auth
and
.Dq Li session
respectively.  The Environment PAM module has identical support for both supported function classes.
.Pp
The Environment PAM module allows the setting and unsetting of environment variables.  The use of previously set environment variables as well as PAM_ITEMs such as PAM_RHOST is supported.
.Pp
This module can also parse a file with simple KEY=VAL pairs on separate lines
.Pq /etc/environment by default .
You can change the default file to parse, with the
.Cm envfile
flag and turn it on or off by setting the
.Cm readenv
flag to 1 or 0 respectively.
.Pp
The following options may be passed to this module:
.Bl -tag
.It Cm conffile=/path/to/pam_env.conf
Indicate an alternative pam_env.conf style configuration file to override the default. This can be useful when different services need different environments.
.It Cm debug
A lot of debug information will be printed to the system log.
.It Cm envfile=/path/to/environment
Indicate an alternative environment file to override the default. This can be useful when different services need different environments.
.It Cm readenv=0|1
Turns on or off the reading of the file specified by envfile (0 is off, 1 is on). By default this option is on.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag
.It Pa /etc/security/pam_env.conf
The default configuration file.
.It Pa /etc/environment
The default environment file.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr environ 7 ,
.Xr pam.conf 5 ,
.Xr pam 8
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Nm
module was written by Dave Kinchlea <kinch@kinch.ark.com>.
