.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.Dd 1/11/07               \" DATE 
.Dt ReportCrash 8      \" Program name and manual section number 
.Os Mac OS X
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm ReportCrash
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line. 
.\" Use .Nm macro to designate other names for the documented program.
.Nd Generates crash reports
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm 
analyzes crashing processes and saves a crash report to disk.
A crash report contains information that can help a developer diagnose the cause of a crash.
.Nm 
also records the identity of the crashing process and the location of the saved crash report
in the system.log and the ASL log database. 
.Pp
.Nm 
is invoked automatically by launchd when a crash is detected.
For applications and other processes running in the per-user launchd context, 
.Nm
runs as a LaunchAgent and saves crash reports in the user's ~/Library/Logs/DiagnosticReports/ directory.
For daemons, other processes running in the system launchd context and other privileged processes, 
.Nm 
runs as a LaunchDaemon and saves crash reports in the system's /Library/Logs/DiagnosticReports directory where they are only readable by admin users.
If there are too many crash reports saved for a particular process, older reports will automatically be removed in order to conserve disk space.
.Pp
.Nm launchtl 
can be used to disable and re-enable crash reporting.
To disable crash reporting:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
launchctl unload -w /System/Library/LaunchAgents/com.apple.ReportCrash.plist
sudo launchctl unload -w /System/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.apple.ReportCrash.Root.plist
.Ed
.Pp
To re-enable crash reporting:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
launchctl load -w /System/Library/LaunchAgents/com.apple.ReportCrash.plist
sudo launchctl load -w /System/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.apple.ReportCrash.Root.plist
.Ed
.Pp
For application crashes (but not background process crashes) 
.Nm
will display a dialog notifying the user that the application unexpectedly quit and offering to reopen the application or send the report to Apple.
For developers, the behavior of this dialog can be adjusted using /Developer/Applications/Utilities/CrashReporterPrefs.app which is installed as part of the developer tools.
.Pp
Crash reports which are sent to Apple are submitted anonymously by the 
.Nm SubmitDiagInfo
process. 
The reports are used by Apple to improve its products.
Users who need support should use http://www.apple.com/support or other authorized support channels.
Developers who are ADC members should report bugs using http://bugreporter.apple.com in order to allow for two way communication between Apple and the bug reporter.
.Pp
More information about interpreting the contents of crash reports can be found in Technote 2123: https://developer.apple.com/library/content/technotes/tn2004/tn2123.html
.Pp
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT      \" May not be needed
.\" .Bl -tag -width "ENV_VAR_1" -indent \" ENV_VAR_1 is width of the string ENV_VAR_1
.\" .It Ev ENV_VAR_1
.\" Description of ENV_VAR_1
.\" .It Ev ENV_VAR_2
.\" Description of ENV_VAR_2
.\" .El                      
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS       \" May not be needed
.\" .Bl -diag
.\" .It Diagnostic Tag
.\" Diagnostic informtion here.
.\" .It Diagnostic Tag
.\" Diagnostic informtion here.
.\" .El
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.\" List links in ascending order by section, alphabetically within a section.
.\" Please do not reference files that do not exist without filing a bug report
.Xr launchd 8 ,
.Xr launchd.plist 8 ,
.Xr launchctl 8 ,
.Xr spindump 8 ,
.Xr SubmitDiagInfo 8 
.\" .Sh BUGS              \" Document known, unremedied bugs 
.\" .Sh HISTORY           \" Document history if command behaves in a unique manner
