'\" e  
'\"macro stdmacro
.ds Vn Version 1.2
.ds Dt 6 March 1997
.ds Re Release 1.2.0
.ds Dp May 22 14:54
.ds Dm 2 May 22 14:
.ds Xs 08360     4
.TH GLUDISK 3G
.SH NAME
.B "gluDisk
\- draw a disk

.SH C SPECIFICATION
void \f3gluDisk\fP(
GLUquadric* \fIquad\fP,
.nf
.ta \w'\f3void \fPgluDisk( 'u
	GLdouble \fIinner\fP,
	GLdouble \fIouter\fP,
	GLint \fIslices\fP,
	GLint \fIloops\fP )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP \w'\fIslices\fP\ \ 'u 
\f2quad\fP
Specifies the quadrics object (created with \%\f3gluNewQuadric\fP).
.TP
\f2inner\fP
Specifies the inner radius of the disk (may be 0).
.TP
\f2outer\fP
Specifies the outer radius of the disk.
.TP
\f2slices\fP
Specifies the number of subdivisions around the \f2z\fP axis.
.TP
\f2loops\fP
Specifies the number of concentric rings about the origin into which
the disk is subdivided.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\%\f3gluDisk\fP renders a disk on the \f2z\fP = 0 plane. The disk has a radius of 
\f2outer\fP, and contains a concentric circular hole with a radius 
of \f2inner\fP. If \f2inner\fP is 0, then no hole is generated. The disk is
subdivided around the \f2z\fP axis into slices (like pizza slices), and also
about the \f2z\fP axis into rings 
(as specified by \f2slices\fP and \f2loops\fP, respectively).
.P
With respect to orientation, the +\f2z\fP side of the disk is considered to be 
"outside" (see \%\f3gluQuadricOrientation\fP).
This means that if the
orientation is set to \%\f3GLU_OUTSIDE\fP, then any normals generated 
point along the +\f2z\fP axis. Otherwise, they point along the \-\f2z\fP 
axis.
.P
If texturing has been turned on (with \%\f3gluQuadricTexture\fP), 
texture coordinates are generated
linearly such that where r = outer, the value at (\f2r\fP, 0, 0) is 
(1, 0.5), at (0, \f2r\fP, 0) it is (0.5, 1), at (\-\f2r\fP, 0, 0) 
it is (0, 0.5), and 
at (0, \-\f2r\fP, 0) it is (0.5, 0).
.SH SEE ALSO
\%\f3gluCylinder\fP, \%\f3gluNewQuadric\fP, \%\f3gluPartialDisk\fP, 
\%\f3gluQuadricOrientation\fP, 
\%\f3gluQuadricTexture\fP, \%\f3gluSphere\fP
