.\" Copyright (c) 2016 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" @APPLE_LICENSE_HEADER_START@
.\"
.\" This file contains Original Code and/or Modifications of Original Code
.\" as defined in and that are subject to the Apple Public Source License
.\" Version 2.0 (the 'License'). You may not use this file except in
.\" compliance with the License. Please obtain a copy of the License at
.\" http://www.opensource.apple.com/apsl/ and read it before using this
.\" file.
.\"
.\" The Original Code and all software distributed under the License are
.\" distributed on an 'AS IS' basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AND APPLE HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL SUCH WARRANTIES,
.\" INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, QUIET ENJOYMENT OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.
.\" Please see the License for the specific language governing rights and
.\" limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" @APPLE_LICENSE_HEADER_END@
.\"
.Dd April 12, 2016
.Dt PTHREAD_THREADID_NP 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm pthread_threadid_np
.Nd get the calling thread's unique ID
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In pthread.h
.Ft int
.Fn pthread_threadid_np "pthread_t thread" "uint64_t *thread_id"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn pthread_threadid_np
function stores the system-wide unique integral ID of
.Fa thread
in the location spedified by
.Fa thread_id .
If
.Fa thread
is NULL, the ID of the current thread is provided.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
If successful, the
.Fn pthread_threadid_np
function will return zero.  Otherwise an error number will be returned to
indicate the error.
.Sh ERRORS
The
.Fn pthread_threadid_np
function will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EINVAL
NULL value for
.Fa thread_id .
.It Bq Er ESRCH
Non-existent thread
.Fa thread .
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr pthread_self 3
