.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.Dd 8/20/12               \" DATE 
.Dt cn 1      \" Program name and manual section number 
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm cn,
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line. 
.\" Use .Nm macro to designate other names for the documented program.
.Nd Command line interface to CommonNumerics routines.
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
..Op Fl hilqv             \" [-hilqv]
.Op Fl p Ar prompt       \" [-p prompt]
.Op Ar command           \" [command]
.Op Ar command_options   \" [command_options]
.Op Ar command_args      \" [command_args]
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
A simple command line utility allowing you to perform CRC and Base Encode/Decode with the
Common Numerics functions.
.Pp
.Nm
has the following standard options for all sub-commands:
.Bl -tag -width
.It Fl h
Show help information.
.It Fl a
Use the specified algorithm.  The CRC, Encode, and Decode commands have various algorithms
that can be used on data provided to them.
.It Fl s <string>
Performs the operation on the specified string value.
.It Fl v
Function in Verbose mode.
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Pp
.Sh "CN COMMAND SUMMARY"
.Nm
currently only provides functions for two activities: CRC calculation and Base Encoding and Decoding (base16, base32, base64). 
.Pp
Here are brief descriptions of all the
.Nm
commands:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Encode|Decode -compact
.It Nm crc
Perform a CRC on the data provided either as a string or on stdin.
.Pp
.Ar Algorithms
.Bl -tag -compact
.It "10 - kCN_CRC_8"
.It "11 - kCN_CRC_8_ICODE"
.It "12 - kCN_CRC_8_ITU"
.It "13 - kCN_CRC_8_ROHC"
.It "14 - kCN_CRC_8_WCDMA"
.It "20 - kCN_CRC_16"
.It "21 - kCN_CRC_16_CCITT_TRUE"
.It "22 - kCN_CRC_16_CCITT_FALSE"
.It "23 - kCN_CRC_16_USB"
.It "24 - kCN_CRC_16_XMODEM"
.It "25 - kCN_CRC_16_DECT_R"
.It "26 - kCN_CRC_16_DECT_X"
.It "27 - kCN_CRC_16_ICODE"
.It "28 - kCN_CRC_16_VERIFONE"
.It "29 - kCN_CRC_16_A"
.It "30 - kCN_CRC_16_B"
.It "31 - kCN_CRC_16_Fletcher"
.It "40 - kCN_CRC_32_Adler"
.It "41 - kCN_CRC_32"
.It "42 - kCN_CRC_32_CASTAGNOLI"
.It "43 - kCN_CRC_32_BZIP2"
.It "44 - kCN_CRC_32_MPEG_2"
.It "45 - kCN_CRC_32_POSIX"
.It "46 - kCN_CRC_32_XFER"
.It "60 - kCN_CRC_64_ECMA_182"
.El
.Pp
.It Nm Encode|Decode
Encode or Decode data provided either as a string or on stdin using one of the algorithms
specified below.
.Pp
.Ar Algorithms
.Bl -tag -compact
.It "1 - kCNEncodingBase64"
.It "2 - kCNEncodingBase32"
.It "3 - kCNEncodingBase32Recovery"
.It "4 - kCNEncodingBase32HEX"
.It "5 - kCNEncodingBase16"
.El
.El
.Pp
.Sh ENVIRONMENT      \" May not be needed
.Bl -tag -width "CN_READ_SIZE" \" ENV_VAR_1 is width of the string ENV_VAR_1
.It Ev CN_READ_SIZE
The "read size" to use when processing incoming data.
.It Ev CN_WIDTH
The number of columns in which to output data when performing a base encoding.  The default is 64 columns.
.El                      
.\" .Sh BUGS              \" Document known, unremedied bugs 
.Sh HISTORY           \" Document history if command behaves in a unique manner
.Nm
was introduced in Mac OS X version 10.9 and iOS version 7.0.
