.\" $Id: eqn2graph.man,v 1.4 2003/10/28 07:46:23 wlemb Exp $
.\" This documentation is released to the public domain.
.
.
.\" Like TP, but if specified indent is more than half
.\" the current line-length - indent, use the default indent.
.de Tp
.ie \\n(.$=0:((0\\$1)*2u>(\\n(.lu-\\n(.iu)) .TP
.el .TP "\\$1"
..
.
.
.TH EQN2GRAPH 1 "27 October 2003" "Groff Version 1.19.2"
.IX eqn2graph
.SH NAME
eqn2graph \- convert an EQN equation into a cropped image
.
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B eqn2graph
[
.B \-unsafe
]
[
.BI \-format\  fmt
]
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Reads an EQN equation (one line) as input; produces an image
file (by default in Portable Network Graphics format) suitable for the
Web as output.
.P
Your input EQN code should \fInot\fR have the \&.EQ/.EN preamble that
that normally precedes it within 
.BR groff (1) 
macros; nor do you need to have dollar-sign or other delimiters
around the equation.
.P
The output image will be a black-on-white graphic clipped to the
smallest possible bounding box that contains all the black pixels.
By specifying command-line options to be passed to 
.BR convert (1)
you can give it a border, set the background transparent, set the
image's pixel density, or perform other useful transformations.
.P
This program uses 
.BR eqn (1),
.BR groff (1),
and the ImageMagick 
.BR convert (1)
program.
These programs must be installed on your system and accessible on your
$PATH for \fBeqn2graph\fR to work.
.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-unsafe
Run 
.BR groff (1)
in the `unsafe' mode enabling the PIC macro
.B sh
to execute arbitrary commands.
The default is to forbid this.
.TP
.BI \-format\  fmt
Specify an output format; the default is PNG (Portable Network Graphics).
Any format that
.BR convert (1)
can emit is supported.
.PP
Command-line switches and arguments not listed above are passed to
.BR convert (1).
.
.
.SH FILES
.Tp \w'\fB/usr/share/groff/1.19.2/tmac/eqnrc'u+2n
.B /usr/share/groff/1.19.2/tmac/eqnrc
The 
.BR eqn (1)
initialization file.
.
.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B GROFF_TMPDIR
The directory in which temporary files will be created.
If this is not set
.B eqn2graph
searches the environment variables
.BR \%TMPDIR ,
.BR TMP ,
and
.B TEMP
(in that order).
Otherwise, temporary files will be created in
.BR /tmp .
.
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pic2graph (1),
.BR grap2graph (1),
.BR eqn (1),
.BR groff (1),
.BR gs (1),
.BR convert (1).
.
.
.SH AUTHOR
Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>.
.
.\" Local Variables:
.\" mode: nroff
.\" End:
