.TH POSTCONF 1 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
postconf
\-
Postfix configuration utility
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
.fi
\fBManaging main.cf:\fR

\fBpostconf\fR [\fB-dfhnv\fR] [\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR]
[\fB-C \fIclass,...\fR] [\fIparameter ...\fR]

\fBpostconf\fR [\fB-ev\fR] [\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR]
[\fIparameter=value ...\fR]

\fBpostconf\fR [\fB-#v\fR] [\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR]
[\fIparameter ...\fR]

\fBManaging master.cf:\fR

\fBpostconf\fR [\fB-fMv\fR] [\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR]
[\fIservice ...\fR]

\fBManaging bounce message templates:\fR

\fBpostconf\fR [\fB-btv\fR] [\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR] [\fItemplate_file\fR]

\fBManaging other configuration:\fR

\fBpostconf\fR [\fB-aAlmv\fR] [\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
By default, the \fBpostconf\fR(1) command displays the
values of \fBmain.cf\fR configuration parameters, and warns
about possible mis-typed parameter names (Postfix 2.9 and later).
It can also change \fBmain.cf\fR configuration
parameter values, or display other configuration information
about the Postfix mail system.

Options:
.IP \fB-a\fR
List the available SASL server plug-in types.  The SASL
plug-in type is selected with the \fBsmtpd_sasl_type\fR
configuration parameter by specifying one of the names
listed below.
.RS
.IP \fBcyrus\fR
This server plug-in is available when Postfix is built with
Cyrus SASL support.
.IP \fBdovecot\fR
This server plug-in uses the Dovecot authentication server,
and is available when Postfix is built with any form of SASL
support.
.RE
.IP
This feature is available with Postfix 2.3 and later.
.IP \fB-A\fR
List the available SASL client plug-in types.  The SASL
plug-in type is selected with the \fBsmtp_sasl_type\fR or
\fBlmtp_sasl_type\fR configuration parameters by specifying
one of the names listed below.
.RS
.IP \fBcyrus\fR
This client plug-in is available when Postfix is built with
Cyrus SASL support.
.RE
.IP
This feature is available with Postfix 2.3 and later.
.IP "\fB-b\fR [\fItemplate_file\fR]"
Display the message text that appears at the beginning of
delivery status notification (DSN) messages, replacing
$\fBname\fR expressions with actual values as described in
\fBbounce\fR(5).

To override the built-in templates, specify a template file
name at the end of the \fBpostconf\fR(1) command line, or
specify a file name in \fBmain.cf\fR with the
\fBbounce_template_file\fR parameter.

To force selection of the built-in templates, specify an
empty template file name on the \fBpostconf\fR(1) command
line (in shell language: "").

This feature is available with Postfix 2.3 and later.
.IP "\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR"
The \fBmain.cf\fR configuration file is in the named directory
instead of the default configuration directory.
.IP "\fB-C \fIclass,...\fR"
When displaying \fBmain.cf\fR parameters, select only
parameters from the specified class(es):
.RS
.IP \fBbuiltin\fR
Parameters with built-in names.
.IP \fBservice\fR
Parameters with service-defined names (the first field of
a \fBmaster.cf\fR entry plus a Postfix-defined suffix).
.IP \fBuser\fR
Parameters with user-defined names.
.IP \fBall\fR
All the above classes.
.RE
.IP
The default is as if "\fB-C all\fR" is
specified.
.IP \fB-d\fR
Print \fBmain.cf\fR default parameter settings instead of
actual settings.
Specify \fB-df\fR to fold long lines for human readability
(Postfix 2.9 and later).
.IP \fB-e\fR
Edit the \fBmain.cf\fR configuration file, and update
parameter settings with the "\fIname\fR=\fIvalue\fR" pairs
on the \fBpostconf\fR(1) command line. The file is copied
to a temporary file then renamed into place.
Specify quotes to protect special characters and whitespace
on the \fBpostconf\fR(1) command line.

The \fB-e\fR is no longer needed with Postfix version 2.8
and later.
.IP \fB-f\fR
Fold long lines when printing \fBmain.cf\fR or \fBmaster.cf\fR
configuration file entries, for human readability.

This feature is available with Postfix 2.9 and later.
.IP \fB-h\fR
Show \fBmain.cf\fR parameter values without the "\fIname\fR
= " label that normally precedes the value.
.IP \fB-l\fR
List the names of all supported mailbox locking methods.
Postfix supports the following methods:
.RS
.IP \fBflock\fR
A kernel-based advisory locking method for local files only.
This locking method is available on systems with a BSD
compatible library.
.IP \fBfcntl\fR
A kernel-based advisory locking method for local and remote files.
.IP \fBdotlock\fR
An application-level locking method. An application locks a file
named \fIfilename\fR by creating a file named \fIfilename\fB.lock\fR.
The application is expected to remove its own lock file, as well as
stale lock files that were left behind after abnormal termination.
.RE
.IP \fB-m\fR
List the names of all supported lookup table types. In Postfix
configuration files,
lookup tables are specified as \fItype\fB:\fIname\fR, where
\fItype\fR is one of the types listed below. The table \fIname\fR
syntax depends on the lookup table type as described in the
DATABASE_README document.
.RS
.IP \fBbtree\fR
A sorted, balanced tree structure.
This is available on systems with support for Berkeley DB
databases.
.IP \fBcdb\fR
A read-optimized structure with no support for incremental updates.
This is available on systems with support for CDB databases.
.IP \fBcidr\fR
A table that associates values with Classless Inter-Domain Routing
(CIDR) patterns. This is described in \fBcidr_table\fR(5).
.IP \fBdbm\fR
An indexed file type based on hashing.
This is available on systems with support for DBM databases.
.IP \fBenviron\fR
The UNIX process environment array. The lookup key is the variable
name. Originally implemented for testing, someone may find this
useful someday.
.IP \fBfail\fR
A table that reliably fails all requests. The lookup table
name is used for logging. This table exists to simplify
Postfix error tests.
.IP \fBhash\fR
An indexed file type based on hashing.
This is available on systems with support for Berkeley DB
databases.
.IP \fBinternal\fR
A non-shared, in-memory hash table. Its content are lost
when a process terminates.
.IP "\fBldap\fR (read-only)"
Perform lookups using the LDAP protocol. This is described
in \fBldap_table\fR(5).
.IP "\fBmemcache\fR"
Perform lookups using the memcache protocol. This is described
in \fBmemcache_table\fR(5).
.IP "\fBmysql\fR (read-only)"
Perform lookups using the MYSQL protocol. This is described
in \fBmysql_table\fR(5).
.IP "\fBpcre\fR (read-only)"
A lookup table based on Perl Compatible Regular Expressions. The
file format is described in \fBpcre_table\fR(5).
.IP "\fBpgsql\fR (read-only)"
Perform lookups using the PostgreSQL protocol. This is described
in \fBpgsql_table\fR(5).
.IP "\fBproxy\fR"
A lookup table that is implemented via the Postfix
\fBproxymap\fR(8) service. The table name syntax is
\fItype\fB:\fIname\fR.
.IP "\fBregexp\fR (read-only)"
A lookup table based on regular expressions. The file format is
described in \fBregexp_table\fR(5).
.IP \fBsdbm\fR
An indexed file type based on hashing.
This is available on systems with support for SDBM databases.
.IP "\fBsqlite\fR (read-only)"
Perform lookups from SQLite database files. This is described
in \fBsqlite_table\fR(5).
.IP "\fBstatic\fR (read-only)"
A table that always returns its name as lookup result. For example,
\fBstatic:foobar\fR always returns the string \fBfoobar\fR as lookup
result.
.IP "\fBtcp\fR (read-only)"
Perform lookups using a simple request-reply protocol that is
described in \fBtcp_table\fR(5).
.IP "\fBtexthash\fR (read-only)"
Produces similar results as hash: files, except that you don't
need to run the \fBpostmap\fR(1) command before you can use the file,
and that it does not detect changes after the file is read.
.IP "\fBunix\fR (read-only)"
A limited way to query the UNIX authentication database. The
following tables are implemented:
.RS
. IP \fBunix:passwd.byname\fR
The table is the UNIX password database. The key is a login name.
The result is a password file entry in \fBpasswd\fR(5) format.
.IP \fBunix:group.byname\fR
The table is the UNIX group database. The key is a group name.
The result is a group file entry in \fBgroup\fR(5) format.
.RE
.RE
.IP
Other table types may exist depending on how Postfix was built.
.IP \fB-M\fR
Show \fBmaster.cf\fR file contents instead of \fBmain.cf\fR
file contents.
Specify \fB-Mf\fR to fold long lines for human readability.

If \fIservice ...\fR is specified, only the matching services
will be output. For example, "\fBpostconf -Mf inet\fR"
will output all services that listen on the network.

Specify zero or more arguments, each with a \fIservice-type\fR
name (\fBinet\fR, \fBunix\fR, \fBfifo\fR, or \fBpass\fR)
or with a \fIservice-name.service-type\fR pair, where
\fIservice-name\fR is the first field of a master.cf entry.

This feature is available with Postfix 2.9 and later.
.IP \fB-n\fR
Print \fBmain.cf\fR parameter settings that are explicitly
specified in \fBmain.cf\fR.
Specify \fB-nf\fR to fold long lines for human readability
(Postfix 2.9 and later).
.IP "\fB-t\fR [\fItemplate_file\fR]"
Display the templates for text that appears at the beginning
of delivery status notification (DSN) messages, without
expanding $\fBname\fR expressions.

To override the built-in templates, specify a template file
name at the end of the \fBpostconf\fR(1) command line, or
specify a file name in \fBmain.cf\fR with the
\fBbounce_template_file\fR parameter.

To force selection of the built-in templates, specify an
empty template file name on the \fBpostconf\fR(1) command
line (in shell language: "").

This feature is available with Postfix 2.3 and later.
.IP \fB-v\fR
Enable verbose logging for debugging purposes. Multiple \fB-v\fR
options make the software increasingly verbose.
.IP \fB-#\fR
Edit the \fBmain.cf\fR configuration file, and comment out
the parameters given on the \fBpostconf\fR(1) command line,
so that those parameters revert to their default values.
The file is copied to a temporary file then renamed into
place.
Specify a list of parameter names, not \fIname\fR=\fIvalue\fR
pairs.  There is no \fBpostconf\fR(1) command to perform
the reverse operation.

This feature is available with Postfix 2.6 and later.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Problems are reported to the standard error stream.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP \fBMAIL_CONFIG\fR
Directory with Postfix configuration files.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
The following \fBmain.cf\fR parameters are especially relevant to
this program.

The text below provides only a parameter summary. See
\fBpostconf\fR(5) for more details including examples.
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
The default location of the Postfix main.cf and master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBbounce_template_file (empty)\fR"
Pathname of a configuration file with bounce message templates.
.SH "FILES"
.na
.nf
/etc/postfix/main.cf, Postfix configuration parameters
/etc/postfix/master.cf, Postfix master daemon configuraton
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
bounce(5), bounce template file format
master(5), master.cf configuration file syntax
postconf(5), main.cf configuration file syntax
.SH "README FILES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Use "\fBpostconf readme_directory\fR" or
"\fBpostconf html_directory\fR" to locate this information.
.na
.nf
DATABASE_README, Postfix lookup table overview
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
The Secure Mailer license must be distributed with this software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
