.TH POSTMAP 1 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
postmap
\-
Postfix lookup table management
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
.fi
\fBpostmap\fR [\fB-Nbfhimnoprsvw\fR] [\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR]
[\fB-d \fIkey\fR] [\fB-q \fIkey\fR]
        [\fIfile_type\fR:]\fIfile_name\fR ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
The \fBpostmap\fR(1) command creates or queries one or more Postfix
lookup tables, or updates an existing one. The input and output
file formats are expected to be compatible with:

.nf
    \fBmakemap \fIfile_type\fR \fIfile_name\fR < \fIfile_name\fR
.fi

If the result files do not exist they will be created with the
same group and other read permissions as their source file.

While the table update is in progress, signal delivery is
postponed, and an exclusive, advisory, lock is placed on the
entire table, in order to avoid surprises in spectator
processes.
.SH "INPUT FILE FORMAT"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
The format of a lookup table input file is as follows:
.IP \(bu
A table entry has the form
.sp
.nf
     \fIkey\fR whitespace \fIvalue\fR
.fi
.IP \(bu
Empty lines and whitespace-only lines are ignored, as
are lines whose first non-whitespace character is a `#'.
.IP \(bu
A logical line starts with non-whitespace text. A line that
starts with whitespace continues a logical line.
.PP
The \fIkey\fR and \fIvalue\fR are processed as is, except that
surrounding white space is stripped off. Unlike with Postfix alias
databases, quotes cannot be used to protect lookup keys that contain
special characters such as `#' or whitespace.

By default the lookup key is mapped to lowercase to make
the lookups case insensitive; as of Postfix 2.3 this case
folding happens only with tables whose lookup keys are
fixed-case strings such as btree:, dbm: or hash:. With
earlier versions, the lookup key is folded even with tables
where a lookup field can match both upper and lower case
text, such as regexp: and pcre:. This resulted in loss of
information with $\fInumber\fR substitutions.
.SH "COMMAND-LINE ARGUMENTS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP \fB-b\fR
Enable message body query mode. When reading lookup keys
from standard input with "\fB-q -\fR", process the input
as if it is an email message in RFC 2822 format.  Each line
of body content becomes one lookup key.
.sp
By default, the \fB-b\fR option starts generating lookup
keys at the first non-header line, and stops when the end
of the message is reached.
To simulate \fBbody_checks\fR(5) processing, enable MIME
parsing with \fB-m\fR. With this, the \fB-b\fR option
generates no body-style lookup keys for attachment MIME
headers and for attached message/* headers.
.sp
This feature is available in Postfix version 2.6 and later.
.IP "\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR"
Read the \fBmain.cf\fR configuration file in the named directory
instead of the default configuration directory.
.IP "\fB-d \fIkey\fR"
Search the specified maps for \fIkey\fR and remove one entry per map.
The exit status is zero when the requested information was found.

If a key value of \fB-\fR is specified, the program reads key
values from the standard input stream. The exit status is zero
when at least one of the requested keys was found.
.IP \fB-f\fR
Do not fold the lookup key to lower case while creating or querying
a table.

With Postfix version 2.3 and later, this option has no
effect for regular expression tables. There, case folding
is controlled by appending a flag to a pattern.
.IP \fB-h\fR
Enable message header query mode. When reading lookup keys
from standard input with "\fB-q -\fR", process the input
as if it is an email message in RFC 2822 format.  Each
logical header line becomes one lookup key. A multi-line
header becomes one lookup key with one or more embedded
newline characters.
.sp
By default, the \fB-h\fR option generates lookup keys until
the first non-header line is reached.
To simulate \fBheader_checks\fR(5) processing, enable MIME
parsing with \fB-m\fR. With this, the \fB-h\fR option also
generates header-style lookup keys for attachment MIME
headers and for attached message/* headers.
.sp
This feature is available in Postfix version 2.6 and later.
.IP \fB-i\fR
Incremental mode. Read entries from standard input and do not
truncate an existing database. By default, \fBpostmap\fR(1) creates
a new database from the entries in \fBfile_name\fR.
.IP \fB-m\fR
Enable MIME parsing with "\fB-b\fR" and "\fB-h\fR".
.sp
This feature is available in Postfix version 2.6 and later.
.IP \fB-N\fR
Include the terminating null character that terminates lookup keys
and values. By default, \fBpostmap\fR(1) does whatever is
the default for
the host operating system.
.IP \fB-n\fR
Don't include the terminating null character that terminates lookup
keys and values. By default, \fBpostmap\fR(1) does whatever
is the default for
the host operating system.
.IP \fB-o\fR
Do not release root privileges when processing a non-root
input file. By default, \fBpostmap\fR(1) drops root privileges
and runs as the source file owner instead.
.IP \fB-p\fR
Do not inherit the file access permissions from the input file
when creating a new file.  Instead, create a new file with default
access permissions (mode 0644).
.IP "\fB-q \fIkey\fR"
Search the specified maps for \fIkey\fR and write the first value
found to the standard output stream. The exit status is zero
when the requested information was found.

If a key value of \fB-\fR is specified, the program reads key
values from the standard input stream and writes one line of
\fIkey value\fR output for each key that was found. The exit
status is zero when at least one of the requested keys was found.
.IP \fB-r\fR
When updating a table, do not complain about attempts to update
existing entries, and make those updates anyway.
.IP \fB-s\fR
Retrieve all database elements, and write one line of
\fIkey value\fR output for each element. The elements are
printed in database order, which is not necessarily the same
as the original input order.
.sp
This feature is available in Postfix version 2.2 and later,
and is not available for all database types.
.IP \fB-v\fR
Enable verbose logging for debugging purposes. Multiple \fB-v\fR
options make the software increasingly verbose.
.IP \fB-w\fR
When updating a table, do not complain about attempts to update
existing entries, and ignore those attempts.
.PP
Arguments:
.IP \fIfile_type\fR
The database type. To find out what types are supported, use
the "\fBpostconf -m\fR" command.

The \fBpostmap\fR(1) command can query any supported file type,
but it can create only the following file types:
.RS
.IP \fBbtree\fR
The output file is a btree file, named \fIfile_name\fB.db\fR.
This is available on systems with support for \fBdb\fR databases.
.IP \fBcdb\fR
The output consists of one file, named \fIfile_name\fB.cdb\fR.
This is available on systems with support for \fBcdb\fR databases.
.IP \fBdbm\fR
The output consists of two files, named \fIfile_name\fB.pag\fR and
\fIfile_name\fB.dir\fR.
This is available on systems with support for \fBdbm\fR databases.
.IP \fBhash\fR
The output file is a hashed file, named \fIfile_name\fB.db\fR.
This is available on systems with support for \fBdb\fR databases.
.IP \fBfail\fR
A table that reliably fails all requests. The lookup table
name is used for logging only. This table exists to simplify
Postfix error tests.
.IP \fBsdbm\fR
The output consists of two files, named \fIfile_name\fB.pag\fR and
\fIfile_name\fB.dir\fR.
This is available on systems with support for \fBsdbm\fR databases.
.PP
When no \fIfile_type\fR is specified, the software uses the database
type specified via the \fBdefault_database_type\fR configuration
parameter.
.RE
.IP \fIfile_name\fR
The name of the lookup table source file when rebuilding a database.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Problems are logged to the standard error stream and to
\fBsyslogd\fR(8).
No output means that no problems were detected. Duplicate entries are
skipped and are flagged with a warning.

\fBpostmap\fR(1) terminates with zero exit status in case of success
(including successful "\fBpostmap -q\fR" lookup) and terminates
with non-zero exit status in case of failure.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP \fBMAIL_CONFIG\fR
Directory with Postfix configuration files.
.IP \fBMAIL_VERBOSE\fR
Enable verbose logging for debugging purposes.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
The following \fBmain.cf\fR parameters are especially relevant to
this program.
The text below provides only a parameter summary. See
\fBpostconf\fR(5) for more details including examples.
.IP "\fBberkeley_db_create_buffer_size (16777216)\fR"
The per-table I/O buffer size for programs that create Berkeley DB
hash or btree tables.
.IP "\fBberkeley_db_read_buffer_size (131072)\fR"
The per-table I/O buffer size for programs that read Berkeley DB
hash or btree tables.
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
The default location of the Postfix main.cf and master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBdefault_database_type (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
The default database type for use in \fBnewaliases\fR(1), \fBpostalias\fR(1)
and \fBpostmap\fR(1) commands.
.IP "\fBsyslog_facility (mail)\fR"
The syslog facility of Postfix logging.
.IP "\fBsyslog_name (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
The mail system name that is prepended to the process name in syslog
records, so that "smtpd" becomes, for example, "postfix/smtpd".
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
postalias(1), create/update/query alias database
postconf(1), supported database types
postconf(5), configuration parameters
syslogd(8), system logging
.SH "README FILES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Use "\fBpostconf readme_directory\fR" or
"\fBpostconf html_directory\fR" to locate this information.
.na
.nf
DATABASE_README, Postfix lookup table overview
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
The Secure Mailer license must be distributed with this software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
