.TH POSTCAT 1 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
postcat
\-
show Postfix queue file contents
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
\fBpostcat\fR [\fB-bdehnoqv\fR] [\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR] [\fIfiles\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
The \fBpostcat\fR(1) command prints the contents of the
named \fIfiles\fR in human-readable form. The files are
expected to be in Postfix queue file format. If no \fIfiles\fR
are specified on the command line, the program reads from
standard input.

By default, \fBpostcat\fR(1) shows the envelope and message
content, as if the options \fB-beh\fR were specified. To
view message content only, specify \fB-bh\fR (Postfix 2.7
and later).

Options:
.IP \fB-b\fR
Show body content.  The \fB-b\fR option starts producing
output at the first non-header line, and stops when the end
of the message is reached.
.sp
This feature is available in Postfix 2.7 and later.
.IP "\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR"
The \fBmain.cf\fR configuration file is in the named directory
instead of the default configuration directory.
.IP \fB-d\fR
Print the decimal type of each record.
.IP \fB-e\fR
Show message envelope content.
.sp
This feature is available in Postfix 2.7 and later.
.IP \fB-h\fR
Show message header content.  The \fB-h\fR option produces
output from the beginning of the message up to, but not
including, the first non-header line.
.sp
This feature is available in Postfix 2.7 and later.
.IP \fB-o\fR
Print the queue file offset of each record.
.IP \fB-q\fR
Search the Postfix queue for the named \fIfiles\fR instead
of taking the names literally.

This feature is available in Postfix 2.0 and later.
.IP \fB-v\fR
Enable verbose logging for debugging purposes. Multiple \fB-v\fR
options make the software increasingly verbose.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Problems are reported to the standard error stream.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP \fBMAIL_CONFIG\fR
Directory with Postfix configuration files.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
The following \fBmain.cf\fR parameters are especially relevant to
this program.

The text below provides only a parameter summary. See
\fBpostconf\fR(5) for more details including examples.
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
The default location of the Postfix main.cf and master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBqueue_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
The location of the Postfix top-level queue directory.
.SH "FILES"
.na
.nf
/var/spool/postfix, Postfix queue directory
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
postconf(5), Postfix configuration
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
The Secure Mailer license must be distributed with this software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
