.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.Dd 5/22/12               \" DATE 
.Dt powermetrics 1      \" Program name and manual section number 
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm powermetrics
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line. 
.\" Use .Nm macro to designate other names for the documented program.
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Op Fl i Ar sample_interval_ms
.Op Fl o Ar order
.Op Fl t Ar wakeup_cost
.Op Fl u Ar output_file
.Op Fl n Ar sample_count
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
gathers and display CPU usage statistics (divided into time spent in user mode and supervisor mode), timer and interrupt wakeup frequency (total and, for near-idle workloads, those that resulted in package idle exits), and on supported platforms, interrupt frequencies (categorized by CPU number), package C-state statistics (an indication of the time the core complex + integrated graphics, if any, were in low-power idle states), as well as the average execution frequency for each CPU when not idle.
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl h , Fl Fl help
Print help message.
.It Fl u Ar file , Fl Fl output-file Ar file
Output to
.Ar file
instead of stdout.
.It Fl b Ar size , Fl Fl buffer-size Ar size
Set output buffer
.Ar size
(0=none, 1=line)
.It Fl i Ar N , Fl Fl sample-interval Ar N
sample every
.Ar N
ms (0=disabled) [default: 5000ms]
.It Fl n Ar N , Fl Fl sample-count Ar N
Obtain
.Ar N
periodic samples (0=infinite) [default: 0]
.It Fl t Ar N , Fl Fl wakeup-cost Ar N
Assume package idle wakeups have a CPU time cost of
.Ar N
us when using hybrid sort orders using idle wakeups with time-based metrics
.It Fl o Ar method , Fl Fl order Ar method
Order process list using specified
.Ar method
[default: composite]
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width flag -compact
.It Op pid
process identifier
.It Op wakeups
total package idle wakeups (alias: -W)
.It Op cputime
total CPU time used (alias: -C)
.It Op composite
weighted hybrid of package idle wakeups and CPU time used (alias: -O)
.El
.It Fl f Ar format , Fl Fl format Ar format
Display data in specified format [default: text]
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width flag -compact
.It Op text
human-readable text output
.It Op plist
machine-readable property list, NUL-separated
.El
.It Fl a Ar N , Fl Fl poweravg Ar N
Display poweravg every
.Ar N
samples (0=disabled) [default: 10]
.It Fl Fl hide-platform-power
Hide platform power data
.It Fl Fl hide-cpu-duty-cycle
Hide CPU duty cycle data
.It Fl Fl hide-gpu-duty-cycle
Hide GPU duty cycle data
.It Fl Fl show-initial-usage
Print initial sample for entire uptime
.It Fl Fl show-usage-summary
Print final usage summary when exiting
.El
.Pp
This tool also implements special behavior upon receipt of certain signals
to aid with the automated collection of data:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width flag -compact
.It Li SIGINFO
take an immediate sample
.It Li SIGIO
flush any buffered output
.It Li SIGINT/SIGTERM
stop sampling and exit
.El
.Sh OUTPUT
.Pp
.Em Guidelines for energy reduction
.Pp
CPU time, deadlines and interrupt wakeups: Lower is better
.Pp
Interrupt counts: Lower is better
.Pp
C-state residency: Higher is better
.Pp
.Em Running Tasks
.Pp
1. CPU time consumed by threads assigned to that process, broken down into time spent in user space and kernel mode.
.Pp
2. Counts of "short" timers (where the time-to-deadline was < 5 milliseconds in the future at the point of timer creation) which woke up threads from that process. High frequency timers, which typically have short time-to-deadlines, can result in significant energy consumption.
.Pp
3. A count of total interrupt level wakeups which resulted in dispatching a thread from the process in question. For example, if a thread were blocked in a usleep() system call, a timer interrupt would cause that thread to be dispatched, and would increment this counter. For workloads with a significant idle component, this metric is useful to study in conjunction with the package idle exit metric reported below.
.Pp
4. A count of "package idle exits" induced by timers/device interrupts which awakened threads from the process in question. This is a subset of the interrupt wakeup count. Timers and other interrupts that trigger "package idle exits" have a greater impact on energy consumption relative to other interrupts. With the exception of some Mac Pro systems, Mac and iOS systems are typically single package systems, wherein all CPUs are part of a single processor complex (typically a single IC die) with shared logic that can include (depending on system specifics) shared last level caches, an integrated memory controller etc. When all CPUs in the package are idle, the hardware can power-gate significant portions of the shared logic in addition to each individual processor's logic, as well as take measures such as placing DRAM in to self-refresh (also referred to as auto-refresh), place interconnects into lower-power states etc. Hence a timer or interrupt that triggers an exit from this package idle state results in a a greater increase in power than a timer that occurred when the CPU in question was already executing. The process initiating a package idle wakeup may also be the "prime mover", i.e. it may be the trigger for further activity in its own or other processes. This metric is most useful when the system is relatively idle, as with typical light workloads such as web browsing and movie playback; with heavier workloads, the CPU activity can be high enough such that package idle entry is relatively rare, thus masking package idle exits due to the process/thread in question.
.Pp
5. If any processes arrived and vanished during the inter-sample interval, or a previously sampled process vanished, their statistics are reflected in the row labeled "DEAD_TASKS". This can identify issues involving transient processes which may be spawned too frequently. dtrace ("execsnoop") or other tools can then be used to identify the transient processes in question. 
.Pp
.Em Interrupt Distribution
.Pp
Powermetrics also reports interrupt frequencies, classified by interrupt vector and associated device, on a per-CPU basis.Mac OS currently assigns all device interrupts to CPU0, but timers and interprocessor interrupts can occur on other CPUs. Interrupt frequencies can be useful in identifying misconfigured devices or areas of improvement in interrupt load, and can serve as a proxy for identifying device activity across the sample interval. For example, during a network-heavy workload, an increase in interrupts associated with Airport wireless ("ARPT"), or wired ethernet ("ETH0" "ETH1" etc.) is not unexpected. However, if the interrupt frequency for a given device is non-zero when the device is not active (e.g. if "HDAU" interrupts, for High Definition Audio, occur even when no audio is playing), that may be a driver error.
.Pp
.Em Battery Statistics
.Pp
Powermetrics reports battery discharge rates, current and maximum charge levels, cycle counts and degradation from design capacity across the interval in question, if a delta was reported by the battery management unit. Note that the battery controller data may arrive out-of-phase with respect to powermetrics samples, which can cause aliasing issues across short sample intervals. Discharge rates across discontinuities such as sleep/wake may also be inaccurate on some systems; however, the rate of change of the total charge level across longer intervals is a useful indicator of total system load. Powermetrics does not filter discharge rates for A/C connect/disconnect events, system sleep residency etc. Battery discharge rates are typically not comparable across machine models. 
.Pp
.Em Processor Energy Usage
.Pp
Powermetrics next reports data derived from the Intel energy models; as of the Sandy Bridge intel microarchitecture, the Intel power control unit internally maintains an energy consumption model whose details are proprietary, but are likely based on duty cycles for individual execution units, current voltage/frequency etc. These numbers are not strictly accurate but are correlated with actual energy consumption. This section lists: power dissipated by the processor package which includes the CPU cores, the integrated GPU and the system agent (integrated memory controller, last level cache), and separately, CPU core power and GT (integrated GPU) power (the latter two in a forthcoming version). The energy model data is generally not comparable across machine models.
.Pp
Powermetrics next reports, on processors with Nehalem and newer microarchitectures, hardware derived processor frequency and idle residency information, labeled "P-states" and "C-states" respectively in Intel terminology.
.Pp
C-states are further classified in to "package c-states" and per-core C-states. The processor enters a "c-state" in the scheduler's idle loop, which results in clock-gating or power-gating CPU core and, potentially, package logic, considerably reducing power dissipation. High  package c-state residency is a goal to strive for, as energy consumption of the CPU complex, integrated memory controller if any and DRAM is significantly reduced when in a package c-state. Package c-states occur when all CPU cores within the package are idle, and the on-die integrated GPU if any (SandyBridge mobile and beyond), on the system is also idle. Powermetrics reports package c-state residency as a fraction of the time sampled. This is available on Nehalem microarchitecture and newer processors. Note that some systems, such as Mac Pros, do not enable "package" c-states.
.Pp
Powermetrics also reports per-core c-state residencies, signifying when the core in question (which can include multiple SMTs or "hyperthreads") is idle, as well as active/inactive duty cycle histograms for each logical processor within the core. This is available on Nehalem microarchitecture and newer processors.
.Pp
This section also lists the average clock frequency at which the given logical processor executed when not idle within the sampled interval, expressed as both an absolute frequency in MHz and as a percentage of the nominal rated frequency. These average frequencies can vary due to the operating system's demand based dynamic voltage and frequency scaling. Some systems can execute at frequencies greater than the nominal or "P1" frequency, which is termed "turbo mode" on Intel systems. Such operation will manifest as > 100% of nominal frequency. Lengthy execution in turbo mode is typically energy inefficient, as those frequencies have high voltage requirements, resulting in a correspondingly quadratic increase in power insufficient to outweigh the reduction in execution time. Current systems typically have a single voltage/frequency domain per-package, but as the processors can execute out-of-phase, they may display different average execution frequencies.
.Pp
.Em Disk Usage and Network Activity
.Pp
Powermetrics reports deltas in disk and network activity that occured during the sample.
.Pp
.Em Backlight level
.Pp
Powermetrics reports the instantaneous value of the backlight luminosity level. This value is likely not comparable across systems and machine models, but can be useful when comparing scenarios on a given system.
.Sh KNOWN ISSUES
Changes in system time and sleep/wake can cause minor inaccuracies in reported cpu time.
