.Dd September 15, 2010 
.Dt productsign 1 
.Os Mac OS X
.\"																				NAME 
.Sh NAME
.Nm productsign
.Nd Sign an OS X Installer product archive
.\"																				SYNOPSIS
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op options
.Cm --sign Ar identity
.Ar input-product-path
.Ar output-product-path
.\"																				DESCRIPTION
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
adds a digital signature to a product archive previously created with
.Xr productbuild 1 .
Although you can add a digital signature at the time you run
.Xr productbuild 1 ,
you may wish to add a signature later, once the product archive has been
tested and is ready to deploy. If you run
.Nm
on a product archive that was previously signed, the existing signature
will be replaced.
.Pp
To sign a product archive,
you will need to have a certificate and corresponding private key -- together called an
.Dq identity
-- in one of your accessible keychains. To add a signature, specify the name of the identity using the
.Cm --sign
option. The identity's name is the same as the
.Dq Common Name
of the certificate.
.Pp
If you want to search for the identity in a specific keychain, specify the path to the
keychain file using the 
.Cm --keychain
option. Otherwise, the default keychain search path is used.
.Pp
.Nm
will embed the signing certificate in the product archive, as well as any intermediate
certificates that are found in the keychain. If you need to embed additional certificates
to form a chain of trust between the signing certificate and a trusted root certificate
on the system, use the
.Cm --cert
option to give the Common Name of the intermediate certificate. Multiple
.Cm --cert
options may be used to embed multiple intermediate certificates.
.Pp
The signature can optionally include a trusted timestamp. This is enabled by default when signing with
a Developer ID identity, but it can be enabled explicitly using the
.Cm --timestamp 
option. A timestamp server must be contacted to embed a trusted timestamp. If you aren't
connected to the Internet, you can use
.Cm --timestamp=none
to disable timestamps, even for a Developer ID identity.
.\"																				OPTIONS 
.Sh ARGUMENTS AND OPTIONS
.Bl -tag
.It Cm --sign Ar identity-name
The name of the identity to use for signing the product archive.
.It Cm --keychain Ar keychain-path
Specify a specific keychain to search for the signing identity.
.It Cm --cert Ar certificate-name
Specify an intermediate certificate to be embedded in the product archive.
.It Cm --timestamp
Include a trusted timestamp with the signature.
.It Cm --timestamp=none
Disable trusted timestamp, regardless of identity.
.It Ar input-product-path
The product archive to be signed.
.It Ar output-product-path
The path to which the signed product archive will be written. Must not be the same as
.Ar input-product-path.
.El
.\"																				SEE ALSO 
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.Xr productbuild 1 
