.\" Copyright (c) 2003 Apple Computer, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.Dd Sun Mar 16 2003               \" DATE 
.Dt pstopdf 1      \" Program name and manual section number 
.Os "Apple Computer, Inc."
.Sh NAME           \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm pstopdf
.Nd convert PostScript input into a PDF document.
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Op inputfile
.Op Fl o Ar outname
.Op Fl l
.Op Fl p
.Op Fl i
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
is a tool to convert PostScript input data into a PDF document. The input data may
come from a file or may be read from stdin. The PDF document is always written to
a file. The name of the output PDF file is derived from the name of the input file or may
be explicitly named using the -o option.
.Pp                      \" Inserts a space
Flags:
.Bl -tag -width indent 
.It Fl o Ar outname
The name of the output file to create. If an explicit file name is not supplied, 
the output file will be created in the current directory and named 
.Ar foo.pdf 
for an input file named
.Ar foo.ps
.It Fl i
Reads from stdin rather than a named input file. If the output file is not explicitly 
named and the input data comes from 
.Ar stdin
the named output file will be
.Ar stdin.pdf
.It Fl l
Specifies that any messages generated during file conversion be written to
a log file. For an output file named
.Ar foo.pdf
the generated log file is
.Ar foo.pdf.log
rather than generated to stdout. If there are no messages, the log file is
not generated.
.It Fl p
Generates a simple progress message to stdout at the end of each page. Because conversion
of complex or lengthy PostScript input can take time, it is sometimes useful to
see that progress is being made. Progress messages are always written to stdout even
when the -l (log file) option is specified.
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Pp
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bl -tag -width "pstopdf -i -o outputfilename" -compact
.It Li pstopdf inputfile.ps
Creates a PDF file named 
.Ar inputfile.pdf 
from the PostScript data in the input file 
.Ar inputfile.ps
.Pp
.It Li pstopdf -i -o outputfilename
Creates a PDF file named 
.Ar outputfilename
from the PostScript data read from stdin.
.Pp
.El
.\" .Sh SEE ALSO 
.\" .Sh BUGS              \" Document known, unremedied bugs 
.\" .Sh HISTORY           \" Document history if command behaves in a unique manner 
