.Dd Aug 10, 2008
.Dt PYTHON 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm python ,
.Nm pythonw
.Nd an interpreted, interactive, object-oriented programming language
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm python
.Ar ...
.Nm pythonw
.Ar ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
To support multiple versions, the programs named
.Nm python
and
.Nm pythonw
now just select the real version of Python to run, depending on various
settings.
(As of Python 2.5,
.Nm python
and
.Nm pythonw
are interchangeable; both execute Python in the context of an application
bundle, which means they have access to the Graphical User Interface; thus
both can, when properly programmed, display windows, dialogs, etc.)
The current supported versions are
.Sy 2.6
and
.Sy 2.7 ,
with the default being
.Sy 2.6 .
Use
.Pp
.Dl % man python2.6
.Dl % man python2.7
.Dl % man pythonw2.6
.Dl % man pythonw2.7
.Pp
to see the man page for a specific version.
Without a version specified,
.Pp
.Dl % man pydoc
.Pp
and the like, will show the man page for the (unmodified) default
version of Python
.Sy ( 2.6 ) .
To see the man page for a specific version, use, for example,
.Pp
.Dl % man pydoc2.7
.Sh CHANGING THE DEFAULT PYTHON
Using
.Pp
.Dl % defaults write com.apple.versioner.python Version 2.7
.Pp
will make version
.Sy 2.7
the user default when running the both the
.Nm python
and
.Nm pythonw
commands
.Sy ( versioner
is the internal name of the version-selection software used).
.Pp
To set a system-wide default, replace
.Ql Li com.apple.versioner.python
with
.Ql Li /Library/Preferences/com.apple.versioner.python
(admin privileges will be required).
.Pp
The environment variable
.Ev VERSIONER_PYTHON_VERSION
can also be used to set the
.Nm python
and
.Nm pythonw
version:
.Pp
.D1 Li % export VERSIONER_PYTHON_VERSION=2.7 Em # Bourne-like shells
.D1 Li "    " Sy or
.D1 Li % setenv VERSIONER_PYTHON_VERSION 2.7 Em # C-like shells
.Dl % python ...
.Pp
This environment variable takes precedence over the preference file settings.
.Sh 64-BIT SUPPORT
Versions
.Sy 2.6
and
.Sy 2.7
support 64-bit execution (which is on by default).
.Pp
Like the version of Python, the
.Nm python
command can select between 32 and 64-bit execution (when both are available).
Use:
.Pp
.Dl % defaults write com.apple.versioner.python Prefer-32-Bit -bool yes
.Pp
to make 32-bit execution the user default (using
.Ql Li /Library/Preferences/com.apple.versioner.python
will set the system-wide default).
The environment variable
.Ev VERSIONER_PYTHON_PREFER_32_BIT
can also be used (has precedence over the preference file):
.Pp
.D1 Li % export VERSIONER_PYTHON_PREFER_32_BIT=yes Em # Bourne-like shells
.D1 Li "    " Sy or
.D1 Li % setenv VERSIONER_PYTHON_PREFER_32_BIT yes Em # C-like shells
.Pp
Again, the preference setting and environmental variable applies to both
.Nm python
and
.Nm pythonw .
.Sh USING A SPECIFIC VERSION
Rather than using the
.Nm python
command, one can use a specific version directly.
For example, running
.Nm python2.7
from the command line will run the
.Sy 2.7
version of Python, independent of what the default version of Python is.
.Pp
One can use a specific version of Python on the
.Em #!
line of a script, but that may have portability and future compatibility issues.
.Pp
Note that the preference files and environment variable that apply to the
.Nm python
command, do
.Sy not
apply when running a specific version of Python.
In particular, running
.Nm python2.6
will always default to 64-bit execution
(unless one uses the
.Xr arch 1
command to specifically select a 32-bit architecture).
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr python2.6 1 ,
.Xr python2.7 1 ,
.Xr pythonw2.6 1 ,
.Xr pythonw2.7 1 ,
.Xr arch 1
