.Dd November 10, 2010
.Dt dyldinfo 1
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME
.Nm dyldinfo
.Nd "Displays information used by dyld in an executable"
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl arch Ar arch-name
.Op Fl dylibs
.Op Fl rebase
.Op Fl bind
.Op Fl weak_bind
.Op Fl lazy_bind
.Op Fl export
.Op Fl opcodes
.Op Fl function_starts
.Ar file(s)
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Executables built for Mac OS X 10.6 and later have a new format for the
information in the __LINKEDIT segment.  The dyldinfo tool will display
that information.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl arch Ar arch
Only display the specified architecture.  Other architectures in a universal image are ignored.
.It Fl dylibs
Display the table of dylibs on which this image depends.
.It Fl rebase
Display the table of rebasing information.  Rebasing is what dyld does when an image is
not loaded at its preferred address.  Typically, this involves updating pointers in the __DATA
segment which point within the image.
.It Fl bind
Display the table of binding information.  These are the symbolic fix ups that dyld must
do when an image is loaded.
.It Fl weak_bind
Display the table of weak binding information.  Typically, only C++ programs will have any
weak binding.  These are symbols which dyld must unique across all images.
.It Fl lazy_bind
Display the table of lazy binding information. These are symbols which dyld delays binding
until they are first used.  Lazy binding is automatically used for all function calls to
functions in some external dylib.
.It Fl export
Display the table symbols which this image exports.
.It Fl opcodes
Display the low level opcodes used to encode all rebase and binding information.
.It Fl function_starts
Decodes the list of function start addresses.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr otool 1
.Xr nm 1
