.TH INSTALL_NAME_TOOL 1 "March 4, 2009" "Apple, Inc."
.SH NAME
install_name_tool \- change dynamic shared library install names
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B install_name_tool
[\-change old new ] ... [\-rpath old new ] ... [\-add_rpath new ] ... [\-delete_rpath new ] ... [\-id name] file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Install_name_tool
changes the dynamic shared library install names and or adds, changes or deletes
the rpaths recorded in a Mach-O binary.
For this tool to work when the install names or rpaths are larger the binary
should be built with the
.IR ld (1)
.B \-headerpad_max_install_names
option.
.TP
.BI \-change " old new"
Changes the dependent shared library install name
.I old
to
.I new
in the specified Mach-O binary.  More than one of these options can be
specified.
If the Mach-O binary does not contain the
.I old
install name in a specified
.B \-change
option the option is ignored.
.TP
.BI \-id " name"
Changes the shared library identification name of a dynamic shared library to
.I name.
If the Mach-O binary is not a dynamic shared library and the
.B \-id
option is specified it is ignored.
.TP
.BI \-rpath " old new"
Changes the rpath path name
.I old
to
.I new
in the specified Mach-O binary.  More than one of these options can be
specified.
If the Mach-O binary does not contain the
.I old
rpath path name in a specified
.B \-rpath
it is an error.
.TP
.BI \-add_rpath " new"
Adds the rpath path name
.I new
in the specified Mach-O binary.  More than one of these options can be
specified.
If the Mach-O binary already contains the
.I new
rpath path name specified in
.B \-add_rpath
it is an error.
.TP
.BI \-delete_rpath " old"
deletes the rpath path name
.I old
in the specified Mach-O binary.  More than one of these options can be
specified.
If the Mach-O binary does not contains the
.I old
rpath path name specified in
.B \-delete_rpath
it is an error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ld(1)
