.\"
.\"	filename: layerutil.1
.\"	created : Thu Feb 26 10:50:36 2015
.\"
.\"
.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.Dd November 13, 2017         \" DATE
.Dt layerutil 1      \" Program name and manual section number
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm layerutil
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line. 
.\" Use .Nm macro to designate other names for the documented program.
.Nm create compiled layered image stack
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Op Fl Vlhogspf          \" [-Vlho]
.Ar inputfile            \" Underlined argument - use .Ar anywhere to underline
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
Creates a compiled layered image stack (lcr) file from a layered input
file source, such as an lsr or suitably structured Photoshop (psd)
file. If the psd file's basename ends with @Yx Y will be treated as
the scale factor of the psd file. If gpu compression is not specified
then lossy compression is used. 
.Pp
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are available:
.Bl -tag -width XXrXXXrecursiveX
.It Fl c \" -c
Convert to lcr format.
.It Fl f Ar s, Fl Fl flattened-image
Saves the flattened image as a jpeg to the output path given by the -o flag.
if the output filename doesn't end with .jpeg or .jpg then the file
extension that was given will be removed and jpeg will get added. If
the file that gets written out is a JPEG image, the resulting image
will be compressed with the default compression options.
.It Fl g Ar s, Fl Fl gpu-compression=s
Sets program to use gpu optimized compression. You can choose either
best or smallest. GPU Compression is only supported on iOS
10.0/AppleTV 10.0 or greater.
.It Fl l Ar n , Fl Fl lossy-compression=n
Set the lossy compression factor used for image content to a value
between 0 and 1.0, default is 0.75. The smaller the value, the smaller
the compressed file size. A value of 1.0 creates a lossless image.
.It Fl s Ar n , Fl Fl scale=v
Used to specify the scale factor used in the generated lcr file. When
used with a PSD file it indicates the scale factor of the PSD
file. When used with an LSR file indicates which scale factor of
images should be kept. If scale is not
specified 1 is assumed.
.It Fl p Ar n , Fl Fl display-gamut=v
v can be one of srgb/p3. Selecting p3 processes the image and if it
contains wide gamut data will be treated as such.
.It Fl g Ar s, Fl Fl palette-image
Turn on palette image compression (Defaults to off).
.It Fl o , Fl Fl output
Output file name. If you are converting an input lsr/psd file then if
no output file is given, the basename of the input file is used as
the output file name with an appended .lcr
extension. unless you are 
.It Fl h , Fl Fl help
Prints out usage information.
.It Fl V , Fl Fl version
Prints out version information.
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Pp
