.TH PAGESTUFF 1 "June 23, 2020" "Apple, Inc."
.SH NAME
pagestuff \- Mach-O file page analysis tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
pagestuff file [-arch arch_flag] [[-a] [-p] | [pagenumber...]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pagestuff
shows how a structure of a Mach-O or universal file corresponds
to logical pages on the current system. Structural information includes
the location and extent of file headers, sections and segments, symbol tables,
code signatures, etc. When displaying a universal file, all architectures will
be shown unless otherwise specified by the
.B \-arch
flag.
.PP
The options to
.BR pagestuff (1)
are:
.TP
.BI \-arch " arch_type"
Specifies the architecture,
.I arch_type,
of the file for
.B pagestuff
to operate on when the file is a universal file.  (See
.BR arch (3)
for the currently known
.IR arch_type s.)
When this option is used the logical page numbers start from the beginning of
the architecture file within the universal file.
.TP
.BI \-pagesize " pagesize"
Specifies the page size to use when computing logical page boundaries. By
default
.I pagestuff
will use the page size of the current system.
.TP
.B \-a
Display all pages in the file.
.TP
.B \-p
Print a list of the sections of the specified file, offsets and lengths.
When displaying a universal file, all archs will be displayed unless
Print a list of the sections of the specified Mach-O file, with offsets and
lengths. Note that the
.BR size (1)
tool displays a much more concise listing given the `-l -m -x' arguments.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR size (1) ,
.BR arch (3) ,
.BR Mach-O (5) .
