.\" Copyright (c) 2015 Apple Inc
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 4. Neither the name of Apple Computer nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY APPLE COMPUTER AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"
.Dd 03/01/15
.Dt os_log_create 3
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME
.Nm os_log_create
.Nd create an object that tracks the state of logging for a given system.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In os/log.h
.Ft os_log_t
.Fn os_log_create "const char *subsystem" "const char *category"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Pp
Use
.Nm os_log_create
to create an object that can be passed to
.Xr os_log 3
calls.
Log messages to this object will be marked with the object's subsystem and category name.
The behavior of log messages to this object can be configured using the
.Xr log 1
command.
.Pp
.Sh EXAMPLES
Create a new os_log_t object and log a message:
.Pp
.Bd -literal -offset indent
#include <os/log.h>

/* create a log object for the subsystem, specifically the "connections" category" */
os_log_t log = os_log_create("com.example.widget", "connections");

/* log a connection related message */
os_log(log, "connection state changed: %d interface: %s", if, interface);
.Ed
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr log 1 ,
.Xr os_log 3
