.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 2001 Carnegie Mellon University.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. The name "Carnegie Mellon University" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For permission or any other legal
.\"    details, please contact  
.\"      Office of Technology Transfer
.\"      Carnegie Mellon University
.\"      5000 Forbes Avenue
.\"      Pittsburgh, PA  15213-3890
.\"      (412) 268-4387, fax: (412) 268-7395
.\"      tech-transfer@andrew.cmu.edu
.\"
.\" 4. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by Computing Services
.\"     at Carnegie Mellon University (http://www.cmu.edu/computing/)."
.\"
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN
.\" AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.TH sasl_server_init 3 "10 July 2001" SASL "SASL man pages"
.SH NAME
sasl_server_init \- SASL server authentication initialization


.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sasl/sasl.h>
.sp
.BI "int sasl_server_init(const sasl_callback_t " *callbacks ", "
.BI "                     const char " *appname ");"

.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION

.B sasl_server_init()
initializes SASL. It must be called before any calls to
sasl_server_start, and only once per process.
This call initializes all SASL mechanism drivers
(e.g. authentication mechanisms). These are usually found in the
/usr/lib/sasl2 directory but the directory may be overridden with the
SASL_PATH environment variable (or at compile time).
.PP
.I callbacks
specifies the base callbacks for all client connections. See
the sasl_callbacks man page for more information.
.PP
.I appname
is the name of the application. It is used for where to find the
default configuration file.
.PP

.SH "RETURN VALUE"

sasl_server_init returns an integer which corresponds to one of the
SASL error codes. SASL_OK is the only one that indicates success. All
others indicate errors and should either be handled or the
authentication session should be quit.

.SH "CONFORMING TO"
RFC 4422
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sasl(3), sasl_callbacks(3), sasl_errors(3), sasl_server_new(3), sasl_server_start(3), sasl_server_step(3)
