'\" e  
'\"macro stdmacro
.ds Vn Version 1.2
.ds Dt 6 March 1997
.ds Re Release 1.2.0
.ds Dp May 22 14:54
.ds Dm 8 May 22 14:
.ds Xs 20129     4
.TH GLUGETSTRING 3G
.SH NAME
.B "gluGetString
\- return a string describing the GLU version or GLU extensions 

.SH C SPECIFICATION
const GLubyte * \f3gluGetString\fP(
GLenum \fIname\fP )
.nf
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP \w'\f2name\fP\ \ 'u 
\f2name\fP
Specifies a symbolic constant, one of 
\%\f3GLU_VERSION\fP, or \%\f3GLU_EXTENSIONS\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\%\f3gluGetString\fP returns a pointer to a static string describing the 
GLU version or the GLU extensions that are supported.
.P
The version number is one of the following
forms: 
.P
\f2major_number.minor_number\fP  
.br
\f2major_number.minor_number.release_number\fP. 
.P
The version string is of the following form: 
.P
\f2version number<space>vendor-specific information\fP
.P
Vendor-specific information is optional.
Its format and contents depend on the implementation.
.P
The standard GLU contains a basic set of features and capabilities.
If a company or group of companies wish to support other features,
these may be included as extensions to the GLU.  
If \f2name\fP is 
\%\f3GLU_EXTENSIONS\fP, then \%\f3gluGetString\fP
returns a space-separated list of names of supported GLU extensions.
(Extension names never contain spaces.)
.P
All strings are null-terminated.
.SH NOTES
\%\f3gluGetString\fP only returns information about GLU extensions. Call
\f3glGetString\fP to get a list of GL extensions.
.P
\%\f3gluGetString\fP is an initialization routine. Calling it after
a \f3glNewList\fP results in undefined behavior.
.SH ERRORS
NULL is returned if \f2name\fP is not
\%\f3GLU_VERSION\fP or \%\f3GLU_EXTENSIONS\fP.
.P
.SH SEE ALSO
\f3glGetString\fP

