'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 1994-1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
'\"
'\" See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
'\" of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
'\" 
'\" RCS: @(#) $Id$
'\" 
.\" The -*- nroff -*- definitions below are for supplemental macros used
.\" in Tcl/Tk manual entries.
.\"
.\" .AP type name in/out ?indent?
.\"	Start paragraph describing an argument to a library procedure.
.\"	type is type of argument (int, etc.), in/out is either "in", "out",
.\"	or "in/out" to describe whether procedure reads or modifies arg,
.\"	and indent is equivalent to second arg of .IP (shouldn't ever be
.\"	needed;  use .AS below instead)
.\"
.\" .AS ?type? ?name?
.\"	Give maximum sizes of arguments for setting tab stops.  Type and
.\"	name are examples of largest possible arguments that will be passed
.\"	to .AP later.  If args are omitted, default tab stops are used.
.\"
.\" .BS
.\"	Start box enclosure.  From here until next .BE, everything will be
.\"	enclosed in one large box.
.\"
.\" .BE
.\"	End of box enclosure.
.\"
.\" .CS
.\"	Begin code excerpt.
.\"
.\" .CE
.\"	End code excerpt.
.\"
.\" .VS ?version? ?br?
.\"	Begin vertical sidebar, for use in marking newly-changed parts
.\"	of man pages.  The first argument is ignored and used for recording
.\"	the version when the .VS was added, so that the sidebars can be
.\"	found and removed when they reach a certain age.  If another argument
.\"	is present, then a line break is forced before starting the sidebar.
.\"
.\" .VE
.\"	End of vertical sidebar.
.\"
.\" .DS
.\"	Begin an indented unfilled display.
.\"
.\" .DE
.\"	End of indented unfilled display.
.\"
.\" .SO ?manpage?
.\"	Start of list of standard options for a Tk widget. The manpage
.\"	argument defines where to look up the standard options; if
.\"	omitted, defaults to "options". The options follow on successive
.\"	lines, in three columns separated by tabs.
.\"
.\" .SE
.\"	End of list of standard options for a Tk widget.
.\"
.\" .OP cmdName dbName dbClass
.\"	Start of description of a specific option.  cmdName gives the
.\"	option's name as specified in the class command, dbName gives
.\"	the option's name in the option database, and dbClass gives
.\"	the option's class in the option database.
.\"
.\" .UL arg1 arg2
.\"	Print arg1 underlined, then print arg2 normally.
.\"
.\" .QW arg1 ?arg2?
.\"	Print arg1 in quotes, then arg2 normally (for trailing punctuation).
.\"
.\" .PQ arg1 ?arg2?
.\"	Print an open parenthesis, arg1 in quotes, then arg2 normally
.\"	(for trailing punctuation) and then a closing parenthesis.
.\"
.\" RCS: @(#) $Id: man.macros,v 1.9 2008/01/29 15:32:33 dkf Exp $
.\"
.\"	# Set up traps and other miscellaneous stuff for Tcl/Tk man pages.
.if t .wh -1.3i ^B
.nr ^l \n(.l
.ad b
.\"	# Start an argument description
.de AP
.ie !"\\$4"" .TP \\$4
.el \{\
.   ie !"\\$2"" .TP \\n()Cu
.   el          .TP 15
.\}
.ta \\n()Au \\n()Bu
.ie !"\\$3"" \{\
\&\\$1 \\fI\\$2\\fP (\\$3)
.\".b
.\}
.el \{\
.br
.ie !"\\$2"" \{\
\&\\$1	\\fI\\$2\\fP
.\}
.el \{\
\&\\fI\\$1\\fP
.\}
.\}
..
.\"	# define tabbing values for .AP
.de AS
.nr )A 10n
.if !"\\$1"" .nr )A \\w'\\$1'u+3n
.nr )B \\n()Au+15n
.\"
.if !"\\$2"" .nr )B \\w'\\$2'u+\\n()Au+3n
.nr )C \\n()Bu+\\w'(in/out)'u+2n
..
.AS Tcl_Interp Tcl_CreateInterp in/out
.\"	# BS - start boxed text
.\"	# ^y = starting y location
.\"	# ^b = 1
.de BS
.br
.mk ^y
.nr ^b 1u
.if n .nf
.if n .ti 0
.if n \l'\\n(.lu\(ul'
.if n .fi
..
.\"	# BE - end boxed text (draw box now)
.de BE
.nf
.ti 0
.mk ^t
.ie n \l'\\n(^lu\(ul'
.el \{\
.\"	Draw four-sided box normally, but don't draw top of
.\"	box if the box started on an earlier page.
.ie !\\n(^b-1 \{\
\h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\l'\\n(^lu+3n\(ul'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\l'|0u-1.5n\(ul'
.\}
.el \}\
\h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\h'\\n(^lu+3n'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\l'|0u-1.5n\(ul'
.\}
.\}
.fi
.br
.nr ^b 0
..
.\"	# VS - start vertical sidebar
.\"	# ^Y = starting y location
.\"	# ^v = 1 (for troff;  for nroff this doesn't matter)
.de VS
.if !"\\$2"" .br
.mk ^Y
.ie n 'mc \s12\(br\s0
.el .nr ^v 1u
..
.\"	# VE - end of vertical sidebar
.de VE
.ie n 'mc
.el \{\
.ev 2
.nf
.ti 0
.mk ^t
\h'|\\n(^lu+3n'\L'|\\n(^Yu-1v\(bv'\v'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^Yu'\h'-|\\n(^lu+3n'
.sp -1
.fi
.ev
.\}
.nr ^v 0
..
.\"	# Special macro to handle page bottom:  finish off current
.\"	# box/sidebar if in box/sidebar mode, then invoked standard
.\"	# page bottom macro.
.de ^B
.ev 2
'ti 0
'nf
.mk ^t
.if \\n(^b \{\
.\"	Draw three-sided box if this is the box's first page,
.\"	draw two sides but no top otherwise.
.ie !\\n(^b-1 \h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\l'\\n(^lu+3n\(ul'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\h'|0u'\c
.el \h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\h'\\n(^lu+3n'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\h'|0u'\c
.\}
.if \\n(^v \{\
.nr ^x \\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^Yu
\kx\h'-\\nxu'\h'|\\n(^lu+3n'\ky\L'-\\n(^xu'\v'\\n(^xu'\h'|0u'\c
.\}
.bp
'fi
.ev
.if \\n(^b \{\
.mk ^y
.nr ^b 2
.\}
.if \\n(^v \{\
.mk ^Y
.\}
..
.\"	# DS - begin display
.de DS
.RS
.nf
.sp
..
.\"	# DE - end display
.de DE
.fi
.RE
.sp
..
.\"	# SO - start of list of standard options
.de SO
'ie '\\$1'' .ds So \\fBoptions\\fR
'el .ds So \\fB\\$1\\fR
.SH "STANDARD OPTIONS"
.LP
.nf
.ta 5.5c 11c
.ft B
..
.\"	# SE - end of list of standard options
.de SE
.fi
.ft R
.LP
See the \\*(So manual entry for details on the standard options.
..
.\"	# OP - start of full description for a single option
.de OP
.LP
.nf
.ta 4c
Command-Line Name:	\\fB\\$1\\fR
Database Name:	\\fB\\$2\\fR
Database Class:	\\fB\\$3\\fR
.fi
.IP
..
.\"	# CS - begin code excerpt
.de CS
.RS
.nf
.ta .25i .5i .75i 1i
..
.\"	# CE - end code excerpt
.de CE
.fi
.RE
..
.\"	# UL - underline word
.de UL
\\$1\l'|0\(ul'\\$2
..
.\"	# QW - apply quotation marks to word
.de QW
.ie '\\*(lq'"' ``\\$1''\\$2
.\"" fix emacs highlighting
.el \\*(lq\\$1\\*(rq\\$2
..
.\"	# PQ - apply parens and quotation marks to word
.de PQ
.ie '\\*(lq'"' (``\\$1''\\$2)\\$3
.\"" fix emacs highlighting
.el (\\*(lq\\$1\\*(rq\\$2)\\$3
..
.\"	# QR - quoted range
.de QR
.ie '\\*(lq'"' ``\\$1''\\-``\\$2''\\$3
.\"" fix emacs highlighting
.el \\*(lq\\$1\\*(rq\\-\\*(lq\\$2\\*(rq\\$3
..
.\"	# MT - "empty" string
.de MT
.QW ""
..
.TH Tk_CanvasTkwin 3 4.1 Tk "Tk Library Procedures"
.BS
.SH NAME
Tk_CanvasTkwin, Tk_CanvasGetCoord, Tk_CanvasDrawableCoords, Tk_CanvasSetStippleOrigin, Tk_CanvasWindowCoords, Tk_CanvasEventuallyRedraw, Tk_CanvasTagsOption \- utility procedures for canvas type managers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <tk.h>\fR
.sp
Tk_Window
\fBTk_CanvasTkwin\fR(\fIcanvas\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTk_CanvasGetCoord\fR(\fIinterp, canvas, string, doublePtr\fR)
.sp
\fBTk_CanvasDrawableCoords\fR(\fIcanvas, x, y, drawableXPtr, drawableYPtr\fR)
.sp
\fBTk_CanvasSetStippleOrigin\fR(\fIcanvas, gc\fR)
.sp
\fBTk_CanvasWindowCoords\fR(\fIcanvas, x, y, screenXPtr, screenYPtr\fR)
.sp
\fBTk_CanvasEventuallyRedraw\fR(\fIcanvas, x1, y1, x2, y2\fR)
.sp
Tk_OptionParseProc *\fBTk_CanvasTagsParseProc\fR;
.sp
Tk_OptionPrintProc *\fBTk_CanvasTagsPrintProc\fR;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS Tk_ItemType *drawableXPtr
.AP Tk_Canvas canvas in
A token that identifies a canvas widget.
.AP Tcl_Interp *interp in/out
Interpreter to use for error reporting.
.AP "const char" *string in
Textual description of a canvas coordinate.
.AP double *doublePtr out
Points to place to store a converted coordinate.
.AP double x in
An x coordinate in the space of the canvas.
.AP double y in
A y coordinate in the space of the canvas.
.AP short *drawableXPtr out
Pointer to a location in which to store an x coordinate in the space
of the drawable currently being used to redisplay the canvas.
.AP short *drawableYPtr out
Pointer to a location in which to store a y coordinate in the space
of the drawable currently being used to redisplay the canvas.
.AP GC gc out
Graphics context to modify.
.AP short *screenXPtr out
Points to a location in which to store the screen coordinate in the
canvas window that corresponds to \fIx\fR.
.AP short *screenYPtr out
Points to a location in which to store the screen coordinate in the
canvas window that corresponds to \fIy\fR.
.AP int x1 in
Left edge of the region that needs redisplay.  Only pixels at or to
the right of this coordinate need to be redisplayed.
.AP int y1 in
Top edge of the region that needs redisplay.  Only pixels at or below
this coordinate need to be redisplayed.
.AP int x2 in
Right edge of the region that needs redisplay.  Only pixels to
the left of this coordinate need to be redisplayed.
.AP int y2 in
Bottom edge of the region that needs redisplay.  Only pixels above
this coordinate need to be redisplayed.
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
These procedures are called by canvas type managers to perform various
utility functions.
.PP
\fBTk_CanvasTkwin\fR returns the Tk_Window associated with a particular
canvas.
.PP
\fBTk_CanvasGetCoord\fR translates a string specification of a
coordinate (such as \fB2p\fR or \fB1.6c\fR) into a double-precision
canvas coordinate.
If \fIstring\fR is a valid coordinate description then \fBTk_CanvasGetCoord\fR
stores the corresponding canvas coordinate at *\fIdoublePtr\fR
and returns \fBTCL_OK\fR.
Otherwise it stores an error message in \fIinterp->result\fR and
returns \fBTCL_ERROR\fR.
.PP
\fBTk_CanvasDrawableCoords\fR is called by type managers during
redisplay to compute where to draw things.
Given \fIx\fR and \fIy\fR coordinates in the space of the
canvas, \fBTk_CanvasDrawableCoords\fR computes the corresponding
pixel in the drawable that is currently being used for redisplay;
it returns those coordinates in *\fIdrawableXPtr\fR and *\fIdrawableYPtr\fR.
This procedure should not be invoked except during redisplay.
.PP
\fBTk_CanvasSetStippleOrigin\fR is also used during redisplay.
It sets the stipple origin in \fIgc\fR so that stipples drawn
with \fIgc\fR in the current offscreen pixmap will line up
with stipples drawn with origin (0,0) in the canvas's actual
window.
\fBTk_CanvasSetStippleOrigin\fR is needed in order to guarantee
that stipple patterns line up properly when the canvas is
redisplayed in small pieces.
Redisplays are carried out in double-buffered fashion where a
piece of the canvas is redrawn in an offscreen pixmap and then
copied back onto the screen.
In this approach the stipple origins in graphics contexts need to
be adjusted during each redisplay to compensate for the position
of the off-screen pixmap relative to the window.
If an item is being drawn with stipples, its type manager typically
calls \fBTk_CanvasSetStippleOrigin\fR just before using \fIgc\fR
to draw something;  after it is finished drawing, the type manager
calls \fBXSetTSOrigin\fR to restore the origin in \fIgc\fR back to (0,0)
(the restore is needed because graphics contexts are shared, so
they cannot be modified permanently).
.PP
\fBTk_CanvasWindowCoords\fR is similar to \fBTk_CanvasDrawableCoords\fR
except that it returns coordinates in the canvas's window on the
screen, instead of coordinates in an off-screen pixmap.
.PP
\fBTk_CanvasEventuallyRedraw\fR may be invoked by a type manager
to inform Tk that a portion of a canvas needs to be redrawn.
The \fIx1\fR, \fIy1\fR, \fIx2\fR, and \fIy2\fR arguments
specify the region that needs to be redrawn, in canvas coordinates.
Type managers rarely need to invoke \fBTk_CanvasEventuallyRedraw\fR,
since Tk can normally figure out when an item has changed and make
the redisplay request on its behalf (this happens, for example
whenever Tk calls a \fIconfigureProc\fR or \fIscaleProc\fR).
The only time that a type manager needs to call
\fBTk_CanvasEventuallyRedraw\fR is if an item has changed on its own
without being invoked through one of the procedures in its Tk_ItemType;
this could happen, for example, in an image item if the image is
modified using image commands.
.PP
\fBTk_CanvasTagsParseProc\fR and \fBTk_CanvasTagsPrintProc\fR are
procedures that handle the \fB\-tags\fR option for canvas items.
The code of a canvas type manager will not call these procedures
directly, but will use their addresses to create a \fBTk_CustomOption\fR
structure for the \fB\-tags\fR option.   The code typically looks
like this:
.CS
static Tk_CustomOption tagsOption = {Tk_CanvasTagsParseProc,
    Tk_CanvasTagsPrintProc, (ClientData) NULL
};

static Tk_ConfigSpec configSpecs[] = {
    ...
    {TK_CONFIG_CUSTOM, "\-tags", (char *) NULL, (char *) NULL,
        (char *) NULL, 0, TK_CONFIG_NULL_OK, &tagsOption},
    ...
};
.CE

.SH KEYWORDS
canvas, focus, item type, redisplay, selection, type manager
