'\" t
.\" @(#)serialver.1 1.10 00/06/13 SMI;
.\" Copyright 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc. Tous droits réservés.
.\" 
.TH serialver 1 "24 June 2004"
.\" .TH serialver 1 "12 May 2000"
.SH NAME
serialver \- serial version command
.\"
.\" This comment retained for historical purposes only:
.\"  This document was created by saving an HTML file as text
.\"  from the JavaSoft web site:
.\" 
.\" http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.5/docs/tooldocs/tools.html
.\" 
.\"  and adding appropriate troff macros.
.\" 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B serialver 
[
.I options
] [
.I classnames
]
.TP
.I options
Command-line options, as specified in this document.
.TP
.I classnames
One or more class names.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "serial version command" "" "serial version command \(em \fLserialver\fP"
.IX "serialver" "" "\fLserialver\fP \(em serial version command"
.B serialver 
returns the
.B serialVersionUID
for one or more classes in
a form suitable for copying into an evolving class.
When invoked
with no arguments, it prints a usage line.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 15
.B \-classpath " <directories and zip/jar files separated by:>"
Set search path for application classes and resources. 
.TP 15
.B \-show
Displays a simple user interface.
Enter the full class name
and press either the Enter key or the Show button to display
the
.BR serialVersionUID .
.TP 15
.BI \-J option
Pass
.I option
to the Java virtual machine, where
.I option
is one of the options described on the man page for the
java application launcher, java(1). For example,
.I \-J-Xms48m
sets the startup memory to 48 megabytes. It is a common convention for
.B \-J
to pass options to the underlying virtual machine.

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
See (or search
.BR java.sun.com )
for the following:
.TP 5
.B java.io.ObjectStreamClass @
http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.5/docs/api/java/io/ObjectStreamClass.html
