'\" t
.\" @(#)wsgen.1
.\" Copyright 2006 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH wsimport 1 "07 Aug 2006"
.SH NAME
wsimport - JAX-WS 2.0 
.PP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.RI "wsimport [" options "] " wsdl
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f3wsimport\fR tool generates  JAX-WS portable artifacts, such as: 
.LP
.RS 3
.IP \(bu 3
Service Endpoint Interface (SEI) 
.IP \(bu 3
Service 
.IP \(bu 3
Exception class mapped from wsdl:fault (if any) 
.IP \(bu 3
Async Reponse Bean derived from response wsdl:message (if any) 
.IP \(bu 3
JAXB generated value types (mapped java classes from schema types) 
.LP
.RE
These artifacts can be packaged in a WAR file with the WSDL and
schema documents along with the endpoint implementation to be deployed.
The generated Service class can be used to invoke the Web Service
endpoint.
.br
.SH OPTIONS
.br
.TP
.BI -d " directory"
Specify where to place generated output files.
.TP
.BI -b " path"
Specify external JAX-WS or JAXB binding files (Each
file must have its own \f3-b\fR).
.TP
.BI -catalog 
Specify catalog file to resolve external entity
references, it supports TR9401, XCatalog, and OASIS XML Catalog
format. Please read the XML Entity and URI
Resolvers document or see \f3wsimport_catalog\fR
sample. 
.TP
.BI -extension 
Allow vendor extensions (functionality not specified by
the specification). Use of extensions may result in applications that
are not portable or may not interoperate with other implementations.
.TP
.BI -help 
Display help.
.TP
.BI -httpproxy: host : port
Specify an HTTP proxy server (port defaults to 8080).
.TP
.BI -keep 
Keep generated files.
.TP
.BI -p
Specifying a target package via this command-line option,
overrides any wsdl and schema binding customization for package name and the
default package name algorithm defined in the specification.
.TP
.BI -s " directory"
Specify where to place generated source files.
.TP
.BI -verbose 
Output messages about what the compiler is doing.
.TP
.BI -version 
Print version information.
.TP
.BI -wsdllocation " location"
@WebService.wsdlLocation and
@WebServiceClient.wsdlLocation value 
.PP
Multiple JAX-WS and JAXB binding files can be specified using \f3-b\fR
option and they can be used to customize various things like package
names, bean names, etc. More information on JAX-WS and JAXB binding
files can be found in the customization
documentation.
.br
.SH Examples
.br
.B wsimport -d generated http://example.org/stock?wsdl
.PP
This command generates JAX-WS portable artifacts for http://example.org/stock?wsdl 
in to the \f3generated\fR directory. 
.LP
.B wsimport stock.wsdl -b stock.xml -b stock.xjb
.PP
The above example generates JAX-WS artifacts for stock.wsdl and uses
the customization files stock.xml (jax-ws customization file) and
stock.xjb (jaxb customization file) in the process.
