.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2011 Apple Inc., all rights reserved.
.\" Distributed only as part of Mac OS X Server
.\"
.\" test with groff -mandoc -T ascii ./base64.1 | less
.mso www.tmac
.Dd February 8, 2011
.Dt base64 1
.Os "Mac OS X" 10.7
.Sh NAME
.Nm base64
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line. 
.\" Use .Nm macro to designate other names for the documented program.
.Nd Encode and decode using Base64 representation
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Op Fl h | Fl D
.Op Fl b Ar count
.Op Fl i Ar input_file
.Op Fl o Ar output_file
.Pp
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
encodes and decodes Base64 data, as specified in RFC 4648. With no options,
.Nm
reads raw data from stdin and writes encoded data as a continuous block to
stdout.
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are available:
.Bl -tag -width ".Cm --interval= Ns Ar interval" -compact
.It Fl b Ar count
.It Cm --break= Ns Ar count
Insert line breaks every
.Ar count
characters. Default is 0, which generates an unbroken stream.
.Pp
.It Fl D
.It Cm --decode
Decode incoming Base64 stream into binary data.
.Pp
.It Fl h
.It Cm --help
Print usage summary and exit.
.Pp
.It Fl i Ar input_file
.It Cm --input= Ns Ar input_file
Read input from
.Ar input_file .
Default is stdin; passing
.Cm -
also represents stdin.
.Pp
.It Fl o Ar output_file
.It Cm --output= Ns Ar output_file
Write output to
.Ar output_file .
Default is stdout; passing
.Cm -
also represents stdout.
.El
.Pp
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT      \" May not be needed
.\" .Bl -tag -width "ENV_VAR_1" -indent \" ENV_VAR_1 is width of the string ENV_VAR_1
.\" .It Ev ENV_VAR_1
.\" Description of ENV_VAR_1
.\" .It Ev ENV_VAR_2
.\" Description of ENV_VAR_2
.\" .El                      
.\" .Sh FILES                \" File used or created by the topic of the man page
.\" .Bl -tag -width "/Users/joeuser/Library/really_long_file_name" -compact
.\" .It Pa /usr/share/file_name
.\" FILE_1 description
.\" .It Pa /Users/joeuser/Library/really_long_file_name
.\" FILE_2 description
.\" .El                      \" Ends the list
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS       \" May not be needed
.\" .Bl -diag
.\" .It Diagnostic Tag
.\" Diagnostic informtion here.
.\" .It Diagnostic Tag
.\" Diagnostic informtion here.
.\" .El
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.\" List links in ascending order by section, alphabetically within a section.
.\" Please do not reference files that do not exist without filing a bug report
.Xr openssl 1 ,
.URL http://\:en.wikipedia.org/\:wiki/\:Base64 "wikipedia page" ,
.URL http://\:tools.ietf.org/\:html/\:rfc4648 "RFC 4648"
.\" .Sh BUGS              \" Document known, unremedied bugs 
.\" .Sh HISTORY           \" Document history if command behaves in a unique manner 
