.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.Dd 2018/06/21               \" DATE 
.Dt COLATIONIO 1      \" Program name and manual section number 
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm CoalitionIO
.Nd Print storage I/O via coalition counters.
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Op Fl c             \" [-c]
.Op Fl Fl clear         \" [--clear] 
.Op Fl Fl perfdata Ar [filename]     \"[--perfdata]
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
wil print out I/O metrics via the coalition counters.
The utility stores the counts in a sqlite database following each invocation of
the utility. What is printed is the delta between the current counts and the
counts stored in the database. When the utility is used for the first time, or
with an empty database, then the coalition counts are from system start.
.sp
The sqlite database containing the deltas can be cleared.
.sp
.Sh OUTPUT
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Begins a tagged list 
.It LogicalImmediateWrites               \" Each item preceded by .It macro
.It LogicalMetadataWrites
.It LogicalInvalidatedWrites
.It LogicalDeferredWrites
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It \fB\-c ", " \-\-clear\fR
Clear deltas database
.It \fB\-\-perfdata\fR \fI[filename]\fR
Write output in perfdata format.
\fIfilename\fR can be one of 3 options,
1) - (dash) Write data to STDOUT.
2) <filename> Write to file.
3) (nothing) Write to a temporary filename in ${TMPDIR:-/tmp}
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.\" List links in ascending order by section, alphabetically within a section.
.\" Please do not reference files that do not exist without filing a bug report
.Xr easyperf 1
.\" .Sh BUGS              \" Document known, unremedied bugs 
.\" .Sh HISTORY           \" Document history if command behaves in a unique manner
