.\"Copyright (c) 1999-2008 Apple Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\"This file contains Original Code and/or Modifications of Original Code
.\"as defined in and that are subject to the Apple Public Source License
.\"Version 2.0 (the 'License'). You may not use this file except in
.\"compliance with the License. Please obtain a copy of the License at
.\"http://www.opensource.apple.com/apsl/ and read it before using this
.\"file.
.\"
.\"The Original Code and all software distributed under the License are
.\"distributed on an 'AS IS' basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
.\"EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AND APPLE HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL SUCH WARRANTIES,
.\"INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\"FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, QUIET ENJOYMENT OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.
.\"Please see the License for the specific language governing rights and
.\"limitations under the License.

.\"To preview: /usr/bin/nroff -msafer -mandoc ditto.1 | less
.\"To check for errors: /usr/bin/groff -I/usr/share/man -S -Wall -mtty-char -mandoc -Tascii ditto.1 > /dev/null 

.Dd December 19, 2008
.Dt DITTO 1
.Os "Mac OS X"
.Sh NAME
.Nm ditto
.Nd copy directory hierarchies, create and extract archives
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm 
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl V
.Op Fl X
.Op <options>
.Ar src ... dst_directory
.Nm
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl V
.Op <options>
.Ar src_file dst_file
.Nm
.Fl c
.Op Fl z | Fl j | Fl k
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl V
.Op Fl X
.Op <options>
.Ar src dst_archive
.Nm
.Fl x
.Op Fl z | Fl j | Fl k
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl V
.Op <options>
.Ar src_archive ... dst_directory
.Nm
.Fl h |
.Fl Fl help
.Sh DESCRIPTION
In its first form, 
.Nm
copies one or more source files or directories to a destination
directory.  If the destination directory does not exist it will be
created before the first source is copied.  If the destination
directory already exists then the source directories are merged
with the previous contents of the destination.
.Pp
In its second form, 
.Nm
copies a file to the supplied 
.Ar dst_file
pathname.
.Pp
The next two forms reflect
.Nm Ns 's
ability to create and extract
archives.  These archives can be either CPIO format (preferred for unix 
content) or PKZip (for Windows compatibility).
.Ar src_archive
(and
.Ns Ar dst_archive )
can be the single character '-', causing ditto to read (write) archive data
from stdin (or to stdout, respectively).
.Pp
.Nm
follows symbolic links provided as arguments but does not follow any links
as it traverses the source or destination hierarchies.
.Nm
overwrites existing files, symbolic links, and devices in the destination
when these are copied from a source.  The resulting files, links, and
devices will have the same mode, access time, modification time, owner,
and group as the source items from which they are copied.  Pipes, sockets,
and files with names beginning with .nfs or .afpDeleted will be ignored.
.Nm
does not modify the mode, owner, group, extended attributes, or ACLs of existing
directories in the
destination.  Files and symbolic links cannot overwrite directories or
vice-versa.
.Pp
.Nm 
can be used to "thin" Universal Mach-O binaries during a copy. 
.Nm
can also copy files selectively based on the contents of a BOM
("Bill of Materials") file.
.Nm
preserves file hard links (but not directory hard links) present in the source directories and preserves
setuid and setgid modes when run as the superuser. 
.Pp
.Nm
will preserve resource forks and HFS meta-data information
when copying unless instructed otherwise using
.Fl Fl norsrc
\&.
Similarly,
.Nm
will preserve extended attributes and Access Control Lists (ACLs) unless
.Fl Fl noextattr
or
.Fl Fl noacl
is passed.
.Ev DITTONORSRC
can be set in the environment as an alias to
.Fl Fl norsrc 
.Fl Fl noextattr 
.Fl Fl noacl
on the command line.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width "XXkeepParent"
.It Fl h
Print full usage.
.It Fl v
Print a line of output to stderr for each source directory copied.
.It Fl V
Print a line of output to stderr for every file, symbolic link, and device copied.
.It Fl X
When copying one or more source directories, do not descend into directories
that have a different device ID.
.It Fl c
Create an archive at the destination path.  The default format is CPIO, unless
.Fl k
is given.
CPIO archives should be stored in files with names ending in .cpio.
Compressed CPIO archives should be stored in files with names ending in
\&.cpgz.
.It Fl z
Create compressed CPIO archives, using
.Xr gzip 1
compression.
.It Fl j
Create compressed CPIO archives, using
.Xr bzip2 1
compression.
.It Fl x
Extract the archives given as source arguments. The format is assumed to
be CPIO, unless
.Fl k
is given.  Compressed CPIO is automatically handled.
.It Fl k
Create or extract from a PKZip archive instead of the default CPIO.
PKZip archives should be stored in filenames ending in .zip.
.It Fl Fl keepParent
When creating an archive, embed the parent directory name
.Ar src
in
.Ar dst_archive Ns .
.It Fl Fl arch Ar arch
Thin Universal binaries to the specified
architecture.  If multiple
.Fl Fl arch
options are specified then the resulting destination file will contain
each of the specified architectures (if they are present in the source
file).
.Ar arch
should be specified as "i386", "x86_64", etc.
.It Fl Fl bom Ar bom
Copy only files, links, devices, and directories that are present in the
specified BOM.
.It Fl Fl rsrc
Preserve resource forks and HFS meta-data.
.Nm
will store this data in Carbon-compatible ._ AppleDouble files on
filesystems that do not natively support resource forks.  As of Mac OS X 10.4,
.Fl Fl rsrc
is default behavior.
.It Fl Fl norsrc
Do not preserve resource forks and HFS meta-data.  If both
.Fl Fl norsrc
and
.Fl Fl rsrc
are passed, whichever is passed last will take precedence.  Both options
override
.Ev DITTONORSRC Ns . Unless explicitly specified,
.Fl Fl norsrc
also implies
.Fl Fl noextattr
and
.Fl Fl noacl
to match the behavior of Mac OS X 10.4.
.It Fl Fl extattr
Preserve extended attributes (requires
.Fl Fl rsrc Ns ).
As of Mac OS X 10.5,
.Fl Fl extattr
is the default.
.It Fl Fl noextattr
Do not preserve extended attributes (requires 
.Fl Fl norsrc  Ns ).
.It Fl Fl qtn
Preserve quarantine information.
As of Mac OS X 10.5,
.Fl Fl qtn
is the default.
.It Fl Fl noqtn
Do not preserve quarantine information.
.It Fl Fl acl
Preserve Access Control Lists (ACLs).
As of Mac OS X 10.5,
.Fl Fl acl
is the default.
.It Fl Fl noacl
Do not preserve ACLs.
.It Fl Fl nocache
Do not perform copies using the Mac OS X Unified Buffer Cache. Files read
and written will not be cached, although if the file is already present
in the cache, the cached information will be used.
.It Fl Fl hfsCompression
When copying files or extracting content from an archive, if the destination 
is an HFS+ volume that supports compression, all the content will be compressed
if appropriate. This is only supported on Mac OS X 10.6 or later, and is only
intended to be used in installation and backup scenarios that involve system 
files. Since files using HFS+ compression are not readable on versions of 
Mac OS X earlier than 10.6, this flag should not be used when dealing with
non-system files or other user-generated content that will be used on a 
version of Mac OS X earlier than 10.6. 
.It Fl Fl nohfsCompression
Do not compress files with HFS+ compression when copying or extracting content
from an archive unless the content is already compressed with HFS+ compression. 
This flag is only supported on Mac OS X 10.6 or later. 
.Fl Fl nohfsCompression
is the default.
.It Fl Fl preserveHFSCompression
When copying files to an HFS+ volume that supports compression, ditto will 
preserve the compression of any source files that were using HFS+ compression. 
This flag is only supported on Mac OS X 10.6 or later. 
.Fl Fl preserveHFSCompression
is the default.
.It Fl Fl nopreserveHFSCompression
Do not preserve HFS+ compression when copying files that are already compressed with
HFS+ compression. This is only supported on Mac OS X 10.6 or later.
.It Fl Fl sequesterRsrc
When creating a PKZip archive, preserve resource forks and HFS meta-data
in the subdirectory __MACOSX.  PKZip extraction will automatically find
these resources.
.It Fl Fl zlibCompressionLevel Ar num
Sets the compression level to use when creating a PKZip archive. The compression
level can be set from 0 to 9, where 0 represents no compression, and 9 
represents optimal (slowest) compression. By default, ditto will use the default compression
level as defined by zlib.
.It Fl Fl password
When extracting a password-encrypted ZIP archive, you must specify --password to allow ditto 
to prompt for a password to use to extract the contents of the file. If this option is not 
provided, and a password-encrypted file is encountered, ditto will emit an error message.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
The command:
.Dl ditto src_directory dst_directory
copies the contents of src_directory into dst_directory, creating
dst_directory if it does not already exist.
.Pp
The command:
.Dl ditto src_directory dir/dst_directory
copies the contents of src_directory into dir/dst_directory, creating
dir and dst_directory if they don't already exist.
.Pp
The command:
.Dl ditto src-1 ... src-n dst_directory
copies the contents of all of the src directories into dst_directory,
creating dst_directory if it does not already exist.
.Pp
The command:
.Dl ditto --arch ppc universal_file thin_file
copies the contents of universal_file into thin_file, thinning executable
code to ppc-only on the fly.
.Pp
The command:
.Dl ditto -c --norsrc Scripts -|ssh rhost ditto -x --norsrc - ./Scripts
copies Scripts, skipping any resources or meta-data, to rhost.
.Pp
The command:
.Dl pax -f archive.cpio
will list the files in the CPIO archive archive.cpio.
.Pp
The command:
.Dl pax -zf archive.cpgz
will list the files in the compressed CPIO archive archive.cpgz.
.Pp
The command:
.Dl ditto -c -k --sequesterRsrc --keepParent src_directory archive.zip
will create a PKZip archive similarly to the Finder's Compress functionality.
.Pp
The command:
.Dl unzip -l archive.zip
will list the files in the PKZip archive archive.zip.
.Sh "ERRORS"
.Nm 
returns 0 if everything is copied, otherwise non-zero.
.Nm
almost never gives up, preferring to report errors along the way.
Diagnostic messages will be printed to standard error.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width DITTOABORT
.It Ev DITTOABORT
If the environment variable
.Ev DITTOABORT
is set,
.Nm
will call
.Xr abort 3
if it encounters a fatal error.
.It Ev DITTONORSRC
If
.Ev DITTONORSRC
is set but
.Fl Fl rsrc Ns ,
.Fl Fl extattr Ns ,
and
.Fl Fl acl 
are not specified,
.Nm
will not preserve those additional types of metadata.
.El
.Sh "BUGS"
.Nm 
doesn't copy directories into directories in the same way as
.Xr cp 1 Ns .
In particular,
.Dl ditto foo bar
will copy the contents of foo into bar, whereas 
.Dl cp -r foo bar
copies foo itself into bar. Though this is not a bug, some may
consider this bug-like behavior.
.Fl Fl keepParent
for non-archive copies will eventually alleviate this problem.
.Sh "SEE ALSO"
.Ns Xr bom 5 ,
.Ns Xr lsbom 8 ,
.Ns Xr mkbom 8 ,
.Ns Xr cpio 1 ,
.Ns Xr zip 1 ,
.Ns Xr gzip 1 ,
.Ns Xr bzip2 1 ,
.Ns Xr tar 1 .
