.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2006-2010, 2013-2017, Apple, Inc.
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.Dd June 12, 2017
.Dt DTRACE 1
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME
.Nm dtrace
.Nd dynamic tracing compiler and tracing utility
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl aACeFhHlqSvVwZ
.Op Fl b Ar bufsz
.Op Fl c Ar cmd
.Op Fl D Ar name Op Ns = Ns value
.Op Fl I Ar path
.Op Fl L Ar path
.Op Fl o Ar output
.Op Fl s Ar script
.Op Fl U Ar name
.Op Fl x Ar arg Ns Op Ns = Ns value
.Op Fl p Ar pid
.Op Fl P Ar provider Oo Oo Ar predicate Oc Ar action Oc
.Op Fl m Oo Ar provider : Oc Ar module Oo Oo Ar predicate Oc Ar action Oc
.Op Fl f Oo Oo Ar provider : Oc Ar module : Oc Ar function Oo Oo Ar predicate \
    Oc Ar action Oc
.Op Fl n Oo Oo Oo Ar provider : Oc Ar module : Oc Ar function : Oc Ar name \
    Oo Oo Ar predicate Oc Ar action Oc
.Op Fl i Ar probe-id Oo Oo Ar predicate Oc Ar action Oc
.Op Fl W Ar pname
.Sh DESCRIPTION
DTrace is a comprehensive dynamic tracing framework ported from Solaris.
DTrace provides a powerful infrastructure that permits administrators,
developers, and service personnel to concisely answer arbitrary questions about
the behavior of the operating system and user programs.
.Pp
The
.Nm
command provides a generic interface to the essential services provided by the
DTrace facility, including:
.Bl -bullet -offset indent
.It
Options that list the set of probes and providers currently published by DTrace
.It
Options that enable probes directly using any of the probe description
specifiers (provider, module, function, name)
.It
Options that run the D compiler and compile one or more D program files or
programs written directly on the command line
.It
Options that generate anonymous tracing programs
.It
Options that generate program stability reports
.It
Options that modify DTrace tracing and buffering behavior and enable
additional D compiler features
.El
.Pp
You can use
.Nm
to create D scripts by using it in a shebang declaration to create an
interpreter file.
You can also use
.Nm
to attempt to compile D programs and determine their properties without
actually enabling traces using the
.Fl e
option.
.Sh OPTIONS
The arguments accepted by the
.Fl P ,
.Fl m ,
.Fl f ,
.Fl n ,
and
.Fl i
options can include an optional D language
.Ar predicate
enclosed in slashes and an optional D language
.Ar action
statement list enclosed in braces.
D program code specified on the command line must be appropriately quoted to
avoid interpretation of meta-characters by the shell.
.Pp
The following options are supported:
.Bl -tag
.It Fl arch Ns = Ns Ar value
Set
.Nm
target data model.  See
.Xr arch 1
for a list of currently supported architectures.
.It Fl a
Claim anonymous tracing state and display the traced data.
You can combine the
.Fl a
option with the
.Fl e
option to force
.Nm
to exit immediately after consuming the anonymous tracing state rather than
continuing to wait for new data.
.It Fl A
Generate directives for anonymous (at boot) tracing and store them to NVRAM.
This option constructs a set of dtrace configuration file directives
to enable the specified probes for anonymous tracing and then exits.
See also
.Fl a
.It Fl b Ar bufsz
Set the principal trace buffer size to
.Ar bufsz .
The trace buffer size can include any of the size suffixes k, m, g, or t.
If the buffer space cannot be allocated,
.Nm
attempts to reduce the buffer size or exit depending on the setting of the
bufresize property.
.It Fl c Ar cmd
Run the specified command
.Ar cmd
and exit upon its completion.
If more than one
.Fl c
option is present on the command line,
.Nm
exits when all commands have exited, reporting the exit status for each child
process as it terminates.
The process ID of the first command is made available to any D programs
specified on the command line or using the
.Fl s
option through the
.Li $target
macro variable.
.It Fl C
Run the C preprocessor in
.Xr clang 1
over D programs before compiling them.  You can pass options to the C
preprocessor using the
.Fl D ,
.Fl U ,
.Fl I ,
and
.Fl H
options.
.It Fl D Ar name Op Ns = Ns Ar value
Define
.Ar name
when invoking
.Xr clang 1
.Po enabled using the
.Fl C
option
.Pc .
If you specify an additional
.Ar value ,
the name is assigned the corresponding value.  This option passes the
.Fl D
option to each
.Xr clang 1
invocation.
.It Fl e
Exit after compiling any requests and consuming anonymous tracing state
.Po Fl a
option
.Pc
but prior to enabling any probes.  You can combine this option with the
.Fl a
option to print anonymous tracing data and exit.  You can also combine this
option with D compiler options.  This combination verifies that the programs
compile without actually executing them and enabling the corresponding
instrumentation.
.It Fl f Oo Oo Ar provider : Oc Ar module : Oc Ar function Oo Oo Ar predicate \
    Oc Ar action Oc
Specify function name to trace or list
.Fl ( l
option).
The corresponding argument can include any of the probe description forms
.Ar provider:module:function ,
.Ar module:function ,
or
.Ar function .
Unspecified probe description fields are left blank and match any probes
regardless of the values in those fields.
If no qualifiers other than
.Ar function
are specified in the description, all probes with the corresponding
.Ar function
are matched.
The
.Fl f
argument can be suffixed with an optional D probe clause.
You can specify more than one
.Fl f
option on the command line at a time.
.It Fl F
Coalesce trace output by identifying function entry and return.
Function entry probe reports are indented and their output is prefixed with
.Ql -> .
Function return probe reports are unindented and their output is prefixed with
.Ql <- .
System call entry probe reports are indented and their output is prefixed with
.Ql => .
System call return probe reports are unindented and their output is prefixed
with
.Ql <= .
.It Fl h
Generate a header file containing macros that correspond to probes in the
specified provider definitions.  If the
.Fl o
option is present, the header file is saved using the pathname specified as the
argument for that option.  If the
.Fl o
option is not present and the DTrace program is contained within a file whose
name is
.Ar filename.d ,
then the header file is saved using the name
.Ar filename.h .
.It Fl H
Print the pathnames of included files when invoking
.Xr clang 1
.Po enabled using the
.Fl C
option
.Pc .
This option passes the
.Fl H
option to each
.Xr clang 1
invocation, causing it to display the list of pathnames, one for each line, to
standard error.
.It Fl i Ar probe-id Op Oo Ar predicate Oc Ar action
Specify probe identifier
.Ar ( probe-id )
to trace or list
.Ar ( l
option).
You can specify probe IDs using decimal integers as shown by `dtrace -l`.
The
.Fl i
argument can be suffixed with an optional D probe clause.
You can specify more than one
.Fl i
option at a time.
.It Fl I Ar path
Add the specified directory
.Ar path
to the search path for
.Li #include
files when invoking
.Xr clang 1
(enabled using the
.Fl C
option).  This option passes the
.Fl I
option to each
.Xr clang 1
invocation.  The specified
.Ar path
is inserted into the search path ahead of the default directory list.
.It Fl l
List probes instead of enabling them.
If the
.Fl l
option is specified,
.Nm
produces a report of the probes matching the descriptions given using the
.Fl P , m , f , n , i ,
and
.Fl s
options.
If none of these options are specified, this option lists all probes.
.It Fl L Ar path
Add the specified directory
.Ar path
to the search path for DTrace libraries.
DTrace libraries are used to contain common definitions that can be used when
writing D programs.
The specified
.Ar path
is added after the default library search path.
.It Fl m Oo Ar provider : Oc Ar module Oo Oo Ar predicate Oc Ar action Oc
Specify module name to trace or list
.Fl ( l
option).
The corresponding argument can include any of the probe description forms
.Ar provider:module
or
.Ar module .
Unspecified probe description fields are left blank and match any probes
regardless of the values in those fields.
If no qualifiers other than
.Ar module
are specified in the description, all probes with a corresponding
.Ar module
are matched.
The
.Fl m
argument can be suffixed with an optional D probe clause.
More than one
.Fl m
option can be specified on the command line at a time.
.It Fl n Oo Oo Oo Ar provider : Oc Ar module : Oc Ar function : Oc Ar name \
    Oo Oo Ar predicate Oc Ar action Oc
Specify probe name to trace or list
.Fl ( l
option).
The corresponding argument can include any of the probe description forms
.Ar provider:module:function:name , module:function:name , function:name ,
or
.Ar name .
Unspecified probe description fields are left blank and match any probes
regardless of the values in those fields.
If no qualifiers other than
.Ar name
are specified in the description, all probes with a corresponding
.Ar name
are matched.
The
.Fl n
argument can be suffixed with an optional D probe clause.
More than one
.Fl n
option can be specified on the command line at a time.
.It Fl o Ar output
Specify the
.Ar output
file for the
.Fl G ,
and
.Fl l
options, or for the traced data itself.
If the
.Fl G
option is present and the
.Fl s
option's argument is of the form
.Ar filename.d
and
.Fl o
is not present, the default output file is
.Ar filename.o .
Otherwise the default output file is
.Ar d.out .
.It Fl p Ar pid
Grab the specified process-ID
.Ar pid ,
cache its symbol tables, and exit upon its completion.
If more than one
.Fl p
option is present on the command line,
.Nm
exits when all commands have exited, reporting the exit status for each process
as it terminates.
The first process-ID is made available to any D programs specified on the
command line or using the
.Fl s
option through the
.Li $target
macro variable.
.It Fl P Ar provider Oo Oo Ar predicate Oc Ar action Oc
Specify provider name to trace or list
.Fl ( l
option).
The remaining probe description fields module, function, and name are left
blank and match any probes regardless of the values in those fields.
The
.Fl P
argument can be suffixed with an optional D probe clause.
You can specify more than one
.Fl P
option on the command line at a time.
.It Fl q
Set quiet mode.
.Nm
suppresses messages such as the number of probes matched by the specified
options and D programs and does not print column headers, the CPU ID, the probe
ID, or insert newlines into the output.
Only data traced and formatted by D program statements such as
.Ql dtrace()
and
.Ql printf()
is displayed to standard output.
.It Fl s Ar script
Compile the specified D program source file.
If the
.Fl e
option is present, the program is compiled but instrumentation is not enabled.
If the
.Fl l
option is present, the program is compiled and the set of probes matched by it
is listed, but instrumentation is not enabled.
.Pp
If none of
.Fl e , l , G ,
or
.Fl A
are present, the instrumentation specified by the D program is enabled and
tracing begins.
.It Fl S
Show D compiler intermediate code.
The D compiler produces a report of the intermediate code generated for each D
program to standard error.
.It Fl U Ar name
Undefine the specified
.Ar name
when invoking
.Xr clang 1
.Po enabled using the
.Fl C
option
.Pc .
This option passes the
.Fl U
option to each
.Xr clang 1
invocation.
.It Fl v
Print an interface stability report for a specified D program or
listed probes.  If probes are being listed with
.Fl l ,
report on each probe's description, arguments, and argument types
.Pq if available .
.It Fl V
Report the highest D programming interface version supported by
.Nm Ns .
The version information is printed to standard output and the
.Nm
command exits.
.It Fl w
Permit destructive actions in D programs.
Without
.Fl w ,
.Nm
will not permit the compilation or enabling of a D program that contains
destructive actions.  Even with
.Fl w ,
destructive actions are not allowed if System Integrity Protection is
enabled.  See
.Xr csrutil 8 .
.It Fl W Ar pname
Wait for the process named
.Ar pname
to launch.  Once it has launched, compile and enable the provided
D script.  Upon exit of the process,
.Nm
exits.  If more than one
.Fl W
option is present on the command line,
.Nm
will stop each process immediately after it launches, start tracing
when all processes have launched, and exit after all processes have
exited.  Only the first-specified process's PID will be available to
D programs through the
.Li $target
macro variable.  Using this option automatically activates the
.Fl Z
option.
.It Fl x Ar arg Ns Op Ns = Ns Ar value
Enable or modify a DTrace runtime option or D compiler option.
Boolean options are enabled by specifying their name.  Options with
values are set by separating the option name and value with an
equals sign
.Pq = .
See
.Sx EXTRA OPTIONS
for the exhaustive list of options.
.It Fl Z
Permit probe descriptions that match zero probes.  If the
.Fl Z
option is not specified,
.Nm
reports an error and exits if any probe descriptions specified in D program
files
.Fl ( s
option) or on the command line
.Fl ( P , m , f , n ,
or
.Fl i
options) contain descriptions that do not match any known probes.
.El
.Sh OPERANDS
Zero or more additional arguments may be specified on the
.Nm
command line to define a set of macro variables
.Pq Li $1 , Li $2 , and so on
to be used in any D programs specified using the
.Fl s
option or on the command-line.
.Sh C++ MANGLED NAMES
By default,
.Nm
uses the demangled names of C++ symbols. You can tell
.Nm
to use the mangled symbol names by passing
.Fl xmangled
to the command.
.Sh OBJECTIVE-C PROVIDER
The Objective-C provider is similar to the pid provider, and allows
instrumentation of Objective-C classes and methods.  Objective-C probe
specifiers use the following format:
.Pp
.Cm objc Ns Ar pid : Ns Oo Ar class-name Ns Oo Po Ar category-name Pc Oc Oc Ns \
    : Ns Oo Oo +|- Oc Ns Ar method-name Oc : Ns Oo Ar name Oc
.Bl -tag
.It pid
The id number of the process.
.It class-name
The name of the Objective-C class.
.It category-name
The name of the category within the Objective-C class.
.It method-name
The name of the Objective-C method.
.It name
The name of the probe,
.Sq entry ,
.Sq return ,
or an integer instruction offset within the method.
.El
.Sh OBJECTIVE-C PROVIDER EXAMPLES
.Bl -tag
.It objc123:NSString:-*:entry
Every instance method of class NSString in process 123.
.It objc123:NSString(*)::entry
Every method on every category of class NSString in process 123.
.It objc123:NSString(foo):+*:entry
Every class method in NSString's foo category in process 123.
.It objc123::-*:entry
Every instance method in every class and category in process 123.
.It objc123:NSString(foo):-dealloc:entry
The dealloc method in the foo category of class NSString in process 123.
.It objc123::method?with?many?colons?:entry
The method method:with:many:colons: in every class in process 123.
.Po A
.Li ?
wildcard must be used to match colon characters inside of Objective-C method
names, as they would otherwise be parsed as the provider field separators.
.Pc
.El
.Sh BUILDING CODE CONTAINING USDT PROBES
The process of adding USDT probes to code is slightly different than documented
in the
.Rs
.%T Solaris Dynamic Tracing Guide
.Re
The steps for adding probes are as follows:
.Bl -enum
.It
Name the provider and specify its probes, using the following form:
.Bd -literal
provider Example {
	probe increment(int);
};
.Ed
.Pp
This defines the
.Li Example
provider with one probe,
.Li increment ,
that takes a single int argument.  Providers can define multiple probes and
probes can take multiple arguments.
.It
Process the provider description into a header file.
.Pp
The provider description must be converted into a form usable by ObjC/C/C++
code.
The dtrace command should be invoked with the
.Fl h
option to do this.
.Pp
.Nm Fl h Fl s Ar exampleProvider.d
.Pp
This will generate a header file named
.Ar exampleProvider.h
.It
Add probe invocations to the application.
.Pp
For each probe defined in the provider, the
.Pa provider.h
file will contain two macros.  The naming is as follows:
.Pp
.Bd -literal
PROVIDER_PROBENAME()
PROVIDER_PROBENAME_ENABLED()
.Ed
.Pp
In the Example provider, the increment probe becomes:
.Pp
.Bd -literal
EXAMPLE_INCREMENT()
EXAMPLE_INCREMENT_ENABLED()
.Ed
.Pp
Place a macro invocation in the code at each site to be traced.  If the
arguments passed to a probe are expensive to calculate, you may guard the probe
placement like this:
.Pp
.Bd -literal
if (EXAMPLE_INCREMENT_ENABLED()) {
	argument = /* Expensive argument calculation code here */;
	EXAMPLE_INCREMENT(argument);
};
.Ed
.Pp
The if test will only succeed when the increment probe is active.
.It
Compile and link your program normally.  No additional compiler or linker flags
are required.
.El
.Sh EXTRA OPTIONS
These options can be set by either passing them to
.Fl x
or be set in
.Nm
scripts using
.Sy #pragma D
.Ar option Ns = Ns Ar value Ns .
.Ss Compile-time options
.Bl -tag
.It amin Ns = Ns Ar attributes
Set the values for the minimum stability attributes for D program execution.
.Ar attributes
is a tuple of the form
.Ar name-stability Ns / Ns Ar data-stability Ns / Ns Ar dependency-class .
Valid interface and data stability attribute values are:
.Bl -bullet -offset indent
.It
Internal: interfaces to
.Nm
implementation details.  These interfaces might change between minor releases.
.It
Private: interfaces to undocumented operating system implementation details.
Might change between minor releases.
.It
Obsolete: interfaces to currently-supported features which are scheduled to be
removed in a future release.
.It
External: interfaces to features not controlled by the operating system vendor.
.It
Unstable: interfaces which may change without warning.
.It
Evolving: may become Standard or Stable but may still change in a future
major release.
.It
Stable: Mature interface which should not change.
.It
Standard: Complies with an industry standard and will not change.
.El
.It arch Ns = Ns Ar value
Set the target data model.  See
.Xr arch 1
for a list of currently supported architectures.
Has the same effect as the
.Fl arch
option.
.It argref
Ignore additional positional command-line arguments instead of reporting an error.
.It core
After execution is complete, cause dtrace to call
.Xr abort 3
instead of
.Xr exit 3 Ns .
On some systems, this will create a core dump.
.It cpp
Run the C preprocessor in
.Xr clang 1
over D programs before compiling them.
Has the same effect as the
.Fl C
option.
.It cpphdrs
Specify the
.Fl H
option to
.Xr clang 1
to print the name of each header file used.
.It cpppath Ns = Ns Ar path
Sets the path of the
.Xr clang 1
preprocessor
.It ctypes Ns = Ns Ar path
Write out CTF definitions of all C types used in all programs at the end of a D
compilation run in
.Ar path Ns .
.It debug
Enable DTrace debug messages.
.It defaultargs
Allow references to unspecified macro arguments.
Use 0 as the value for an unspecified argument.
.It define
Adds an implicit #define into the predefines buffer of the preprocessor.
Has the same effect as the
.Fl D
option.
.It disallow_dsym
Do not use dSYM files for userspace symbolication.
.It droptags
Prints drop tags, [DTRACE_DROP_$TYPE] values describing drop types, to the
drop tags handler (by default, to stderr).
.It empty
Allow compilation of empty D files.
.It encoding Ns = Ns Op ascii|utf8
Sets the encoding used for output.
utf8 will show Unicode block elements for histograms.
.It errtags
Prefix default error message with error tags.
.It evaltime Ns = Ns Op preinit|postinit
Control when DTrace starts instrumenting a new process, before or after library
initializers have run.
.It incdir Ns = Ns Ar value
Add the specified directory to the search path for includes files in the
preprocessor.
.It iregs Ns = Ns Ar value
Size of the DIF (DTrace Intermediate Format) integer register set.
The default value is 8.
.It late Ns = Ns Op dynamic|static
Sets whether references to dynamic translators are allowed.
.It libdir Ns = Ns path
Add a library directory in the library search path.
.It mangled
Show mangled symbols for C++/Swift probes instead of demangled symbols.
.It nolibs
Do not include D system libraries. Prevents access to
.Nm
system library identifiers but speeds up DTrace launch.
.It nojtanalysis
Disable jump table analysis.  The default behavior of the
.Sy pid
provider is to not provide
.Sq return
or offset probes for functions which appear to contain jump tables.
.Qq Jump tables are often generated for switch statements.
Disabling jump table analysis can lead to inappropriately placed probes,
data corruption, or even crashes in the target process.
.It noerror
Do not show error messages.
.It pgmax Ns = Ns Ar value
Sets the maximum number of processes DTrace can grab at the same time.
Default value is 8.
.It preallocate Ns = Ns Ar value Ns Op k|m
Preallocate memory in dtrace before running the script.
.It pspec
Interpret ambiguous specifiers as probe names.
.It strip
Strip non-loadable sections from the D program.
.It tree Ns = Ns Ar value
Bitmap to show the
.Nm
compiler parse tree at different stages (1|2|4).
.It tregs Ns = Ns Ar value
Size of the DIF tuple register set.
This controls the number of arguments that can be passed to functions.
Default value is 8.
.It undef Ns = Ns Ar value
Adds an implicit
.Li #undef Ar value
into the predefines buffer of the preprocessor.
.It verbose
Show D compiler intermediate code (DIFO).
The D compiler will produce a report of the intermediate code generated
for each D program to
.Xr stderr 4
Has the same effect as the
.Fl S
option.
.It version
Request a specific version of the DTrace scripting language.
This will disable all identifiers / translators / functions
that are from a newer version than the specified version.
.It zdefs
Permit probe descriptions that match zero probes.
Has the same effect as the
.Fl Z
option.
.El
.Pp
.Ss Run-time Options
.Bl -tag
.It aggsize Ns = Ns Ar value Op m|k
Sets the aggregation buffer size in bytes, kibi or mebibytes.
.It bufsize Ns = Ns Ar value Ns Op m|k
Sets the principal trace buffer size.
Has the same effect as the
.Fl b
option.
.It buflimit Ns = Ns Ar 1-99
Threshold percentage of buffer size at which early buffer switches will be
done.
75% is the default.
.It bufpolicy Ns = Ns Op ring|fill|switch
Sets the buffer policy. The default buffer policy is switch.
.It bufresize Ns = Ns Op auto|manual
Sets whether the per-CPU buffer size can be halved when the kernel cannot
allocate enough memory.
Auto is the default value.
.It cleanrate Ns = Ns Ar value Ns Op ns|us|ms|s|m|h|d|hz
Cleaning rate for speculative buffers.
.It cpu Ns = Ns Ar value
CPU on which to enable tracing.
.It destructive
Allow destructive actions.
Has the same effect as the
.Fl w
option.
.It dynvarsize Ns = Ns Ar value
Dynamic variable space size.
.It grabanon
Claim anonymous tracing state and display the trace data.
Has the same effect as the
.Fl a
option.
.It nspec Ns = Ns Ar value
Number of speculative buffers.
.It specsize Ns = Ns Ar value Ns Op k|m
Speculation buffer size.
.It stackframes Ns = Ns Ar value
Number of stack frames shown for kernel backtraces.
.It statusrate Ns = Ns Ar value Ns Op ns|us|ms|s|m|h|d|hz
Rate at which user space
.Nm
will poll the kernel for status.
.It strsize Ns = Ns Ar maxStringSize
Maximum string size.
.It temporal Ns = Ns Op true|false
Sort events so that output is in time order. Defaults to true.
.It ustackframes Ns = Ns Ar frameCount
Number of stack frames shown for userspace backtraces.
.El
.Pp
.Ss Dynamic Run-time Options
.Bl -tag
.It agghist Ns = Ns Ar Op true|false
Shows a histogram for all aggregations.
.It aggpack
Pack aggregations together, only showing one line per aggregation.
.It aggrate Ns = Ns Ar value Ns Op us|ms|s|m|h|d|hz
Sets the aggregation buffer retrieval rate.
.It aggsortkey
Sort aggregation by key order with ties broken by value.
.It aggsortkeypos Ns = Ns Ar value
Position of the aggregate key on which the output is sorted.
.It aggsortpos Ns = Ns Ar value
Position in the argument in the aggregate function on which the output is
sorted.
.It aggsortrev
Sort aggregations in reverse order.
.It aggzoom
Scales the height of bars in histograms in proportion of the bucket of greatest
value instead of the full height of the histogram.
.It flowindent
Indent function entry/returns with -> / <-. Has the same effect as the
.Fl F
option.
.It quiet
Output only explicitly traced data. Has the same effect as the
.Fl q
option.
.It rawbytes
Always print tracemem output in hexadecimal.
.It stackindent
Number of white space characters to use when indenting
.Fn stack
or
.Fn ustack
output.
.It stacksymbols Ns = Ns Ar frameCount Ns Op true|false
Whether stack symbols are symbolicated or not. Defaults to true.
.It switchrate Ns = Ns Ar value Ns Op ns|us|ms|s|m|h|d|hz
Rate of principal buffer switching.
.El
.Sh SUPPORTED BUILT-IN VARIABLES
.Nm
supplies the following built-in, read-only variables.
.Bl -tag -width 12
.It Vt uint64_t Va arg0-arg9
Arguments of the current probe invocation represented as unsigned 64-bit
integers.  In the
.Sq entry
probe actions of the
.Sy syscall Ns ,
.Sy mach_trap Ns ,
.Sy fbt Ns ,
and
.Sy pid
providers, these variables contain the traced function's arguments.  In
the
.Sq return
probe actions of the
.Sy fbt
and
.Sy pid
providers,
.Va arg0
contains the instruction offset (into the function) from which the function
returned and
.Va arg1
contains the function's return value.  In the
.Sq return
probe actions of the
.Sy syscall
and
.Sy mach_trap
providers, both
.Va arg0
and
.Va arg1
are set to the function's return value.  The
.Sy profile
and
.Sy tick
providers set
.Va arg1
to the address of the instruction that was running when the action fired.
.It Va args[]
Typed arguments of the current probe, if available.  See
.Fl v .
.It Vt uint64_t Va caller
The kernel address of the instruction that called the current function.
As DTrace actions are always called from kernel context, this variable
is non-zero even when probes are triggered from user space.
.It Vt processorid_t Va cpu
Integer identifier of the logical CPU on which this probe action triggered.
.It Vt uint64_t Va cpucycles Po Darwin-specific Pc
Number of CPU cycles elapsed on the current CPU.  See also
.Va vcycles .
.It Vt uint64_t Va cpuinstrs Po Darwin-specific Pc
Number of instructions
.Qq retired
by the current logical CPU, if available.  This count excludes instructions
speculatively issued by the processor which didn't actually need to be
executed.  See also
.Va vinstrs .
.It Vt thread_t Va curthread
Address of the OS thread structure corresponding to the thread which
triggered the current probe action.
.It Vt user_addr_t Va dispatchqaddr Po Darwin-specific Pc
If the probe action was triggered from a user space context which
included a dispatch queue, the address of that queue.
.It Vt uint_t Va id
The current probe's unique identifier within the currently running OS,
as shown with
.Fl l .
.It Vt uint_t Va epid
A unique identifier representing the current probe action's enablement
within the current D program.  An action can match multiple probes.
.It Vt int Va errno
Error value returned by the last system call performed on the current
thread.
.It Vt string Va execname
Current process name.
.It Vt gid_t Va gid
Primary group ID of the current process.
.It Vt uint_t Va ipl
Current interrupt level.  On Darwin, either 0 or 1.
.It Vt uint64_t Va machtimestamp Po Darwin-specific Pc
Current
.Fn mach_absolute_time
timestamp.
.It Vt pid_t Va pid
Process ID of the current process.
.It Vt pid_t Va ppid
Parent process ID of the current process.
.It Vt string Va probeprov , Va probemod , Va probefunc , Va probename
Respectively, the names of the current probe's provider, module, function,
and name.  See
.Fl n .
.It Vt uint32_t Va stackdepth
Number of kernel-mode stack frames on the current thread.
.It Vt id_t Va tid
Thread ID of the current thread.
.It Vt uint64_t Va timestamp
Current value in nanoseconds from some system-wide fixed point in the past.
.It Vt uid_t Va uid
User ID of the current process.
.It Vt uint64_t Va ucaller
The user space address from which the currently-running function was called,
or zero if the function was called from the kernel.
.It Vt uint32_t Va ustackdepth
Number of user space stack frames on the current thread.
.It Vt uint64_t Va uregs[]
The current thread's register values immediately prior to the last
transition from user to kernel execution.
.Pa /usr/lib/dtrace/regs*
provides contstants for the indicies of each register's value in the array.
.It Vt uint64_t Va vcycles Po Darwin-specific Pc
Number of CPU cycles elapsed while running the current thread.  This value
includes cycles elapsed while processing interrupts with this thread.  See
also
.Va cpucycles .
.It Vt uint64_t Va vinstrs Po Darwin-specific Pc
Number of instructions retired by the current thread, if available.
This value includes instructions retired while processing interrupts with
this thread.
See also
.Va cpuinstrs .
.It Vt uint64_t Va vtimestamp
Time in nanoseconds that the current thread has spent running on any CPU.
.It Vt uint64_t Va walltimestamp
Current number of nanoseconds since the Unix Epoch (00:00 UTC January
1st, 1070).
.El
.Sh SUPPORTED SUBROUTINES
D subroutines can only effect internal D program state.  Many D subroutines
have no effects outside the current D program clause.
.Pp
.Vt const char*
arguments accept either D
.Vt string
objects or pointers to C strings.  C strings are assumed to be terminated
with a NUL (0) byte.
DTrace pointers refer to kernel virtual address space unlesse otherwise
indicated.
.Pp
A number of DTrace's subroutines return scratch objects.  These scratch
objects are only valid for the current invocation of the
immediately-enclosing D program clause.
.Bl -tag -width 12
.It Ft void* Fn alloca "size_t* nbytes"
Create a new
.Fa nbytes Ns -sized
scratch buffer.
.It Ft string Fn basename "const char* pathstr"
Copy the last
.So / Sc Ns -delimited
component of
.Fa pathstr
into a new scratch string.
.It Ft void Fn bcopy "void* src, void* scratch, size_t size"
Copy
.Fa size
bytes from address
.Fa src
to the existing scratch buffer
.Fa scratch .
.It Ft string Fn cleanpath "const char* pathstr"
Copy a canonical representation of
.Fa pathstr
into a new scratch string.  The resulting string will not contain any
unnecessary or redundant
.Ql ./
or
.Ql ../
substrings.
.It Ft void* Fn copyin "user_addr_t src, size_t size"
Copy
.Fa size
bytes from the current user space address
.Fa src
to a new scratch buffer.
.It Ft string Fn copyinstr "user_addr_t src, [size_t maxchars]"
Copy a NUL-terminated C string from the current user space address
.Fa src
into a new scratch string. If
.Fa maxchars
is specified, it will limit the total number of characters that can
be copied.  If it is not specified, the run-time option
.Ar strsize
will limit the maximum number of characters copied.
.It Ft void Fn copyinto "user_addr_t src, size_t size, void *scratch"
Copy
.Fa size
bytes from the current user space address
.Fa src
to the existing scratch buffer
.Fa scratch .
.It Ft string Fn dirname "const char *pathstr"
Copy all but the last
.So / Sc Ns -delimited
component of
.Fa pathstr
into a new scratch string.
.It Ft major_t Fn getmajor "dev_t dev"
Extract the major device number for
.Fa dev .
.It Ft minor_t Fn getminor "dev_t dev"
Extract the minor device number for
.Fa dev .
.It Ft uint32_t Fn htonl "uint32_t hostlong"
Convert
.Fa hostlong
from host byte order to network byte order.
.It Ft uint64_t Fn htonll "uint64_t hostlonglong"
Convert
.Fa hostlonglong
from host byte order to network byte order.
.It Ft uint16_t Fn htons "uint16_t hostshort"
Convert
.Fa hostshort
from host byte order to network byte order.
.It Ft int Fn index "const char* str, const char* searchstr, [int start]"
Return the character offset of the first occurence of
.Fa searchstr
within
.Fa str ,
optionally starting the search at character offset
.Fa start .
.It Ft int Fn rindex "const char* str, const char* searchstr, [int start]"
Return the character offset of the last occurence of the C string
.Fa searchstr
within
.Fa str ,
optionally starting the reverse-search at character offset
.Fa start .
.It Ft string Fn inet_ntoa "uint32_t* addr"
Create a scratch string representing the IPv4 address pointed to by
.Fa addr
in dotted-decimal notation.
.It Ft string Fn inet_ntoa6 "struct in6_addr* addr"
Create a scratch string representing the IPv6 address pointed to by
.Fa addr
in zero-compressed double-colon hexadecimal notaion
.Pq specifically RFC 1884 convention 2 .
.It Ft string Fn inet_ntop "int addrfamily, void *addr"
Create a scratch string representing the IP address of type
.Fa addrfamily
pointed to by
.Fa addr .
Valid values for
.Fa addrfamily
are
.Dv AF_INET
and
.Dv AF_INET6 .
.It Ft string Fn lltostr "int64_t val, [int baseN]"
Create a scratch string representing
.Fa val
in base
.Fa baseN
notation.
.It Ft uint32_t Fn ntohl "uint32_t netlong"
Convert
.Fa netlong
from network byte order to host byte order.
.It Ft uint64_t Fn ntohll "uint64_t netlonglong"
Convert
.Fa netlonglong
from network byte order to host byte order.
.It Ft uint16_t Fn ntohs "uint16_t netshort"
Convert
.Fa netshort
from network byte order to host byte order.
.It Ft int Fn progenyof "pid_t pid"
Return non-zero if the calling process has a chain of parent processes
leading to
.Fa pid .
.It Ft int Fn rand
Return a positive pseudo-random number.  It is easy to predict these
numbers so they should be be used for cryptographic purposes.
.It Ft int Fn speculation
Create a speculative buffer for use with
.Fn speculate ,
returning the buffer's identifier.  See also
.Fn commit .
.It Ft string Fn strchr "const char* str, char c"
If
.Fa str
contains
.Fa c ,
copy the characters starting at the first occurrence of
.Fa c
and ending at the end of
.Fa str
into a new scratch string.
If
.Fa c
is not present, return NULL.
.It Ft string Fn strrchr "const char* str, char c"
Like
.Fn strchr ,
but start from the last occurrence of
.Fa c .
.It Ft size_t Fn strlen "const char* str"
Calculate the length of
.Fa str
in bytes.
.It Ft string Fn strjoin "const char* str1, const char* str2"
Concatenate
.Fa str1
and
.Fa str2
into a new scratch string.
.It Ft string Fn strstr "const char* str, const char* prefix"
If
.Fa str
contains
.Fa prefix ,
copy the characters from
.Fa prefix
to the end of the string into a new scratch string.
If
.Fa prefix
is not present, return NULL.
.It Ft string Fn strtok "const char* str, const char *delimchars"
Like
.Xr strtok(3) ,
split
.Fa str
into multiple substrings, splitting on any of the characters in
.Fa delimchars .
If the
.Fa str
is non-NULL, return the first token.  If
.Fa str
is non-NULL, return the next token from the most recently provided string.
.Fa delimchars
can be changed in subsequent calls.  If no characters from
.Fa delimchars
are present whatever portion of
.Fa str
has not yet been tokenized, return NULL.
.It Ft string Fn substr "const char* str, int start, [int length]"
Copy the characters in
.Fa str
from character offset
.Fa start
through the end of the string into a new scratch string.
.Fa length
can be used to limit the number of characters copied to the new string.
.It Ft string Fn tolower "const char *str"
Copy
.Fa str
into a new scratch string, replacing all uppercase letters with their
lowercase equivalents.
.It Ft string Fn toupper "const char* str"
Copy
.Fa str
into a new scratch string, replacing all lowercase letters with their
uppercase equivalents.
.It Ft void* Fn vm_kernel_addrperm "void* addr" Po Darwin-specific Pc
Calculate the unpermuted
.Pq or Qq unslid
address corresponding to the raw kernel address
.Fa addr .
By default, DTrace uses, traces, and prints raw kernel addresses.
Unpermuted addresses will correspond with other user-visible addresses
such as those shown in
.Xr kextstat 8 .
With default System Integrity Protection settings, D programs are not
permitted to access kernel address values or kernel memory contents.
.Xr csrutil 8
can be used to change the settings.
.El
.Sh SUPPORTED ACTIONS
DTrace actions allow a D program to interact with the running system.
The most benign actions record data to a DTrace buffer.  Destructive
actions have effects on the system and must be enabled with
.Fl w .
.Pp
.Ft void*
pointers may refer to either D scratch buffers or kernel virtual addresses.
.Bl -tag -width 12
.It Ft void Fn breakpoint Po destructive Pc
Stop the kernel and wait for a debugger.
.It Ft void Fn chill "int nsecs" Po destructive Pc
Spin inside DTrace for the specified number of nanoseconds.  If this
action is asked to spin for more than 500ms out of every second of wall
clock time, an error will be reported.
.It Ft void Fn clear "@aggr"
.\" why is this an action vs. a subroutine?
Clear all values in
.Fa @aggr .
The keys are retained.  See also
.Fn trunc .
.\" TODO: add an AGGREGATIONS section and refer to it here
.It Ft void Fn commit "int specid"
Copy the contents of the speculative buffer
.Fa specid
to the main tracing buffer.
.\" TODO: add an SPECULATION section and refer to it here
.It Ft void Fn copyout "void *src, user_addr_t *dst, size_t size" Po destructive Pc
Copy
.Fa size
bytes from the buffer
.Fa src
into the current address space address
.Fa dst .
.It Ft void Fn copyoutstr "void *src, user_addr_t *dst, size_t maxbytes" Po destructive Pc
Copy a NUL-terminated C string from
.Fa src
to the current user address space address
.Fa dst ,
copying no more than
.Fa maxbytes .
.It Ft void Fn discard "int specid"
Discard the speculative buffer
.Fa specid .
.It Ft void Fn exit "int status"
Stop tracing, cause
.Nm
to print any final results, and exit with
.Fa status .
.It Ft void Fn freopen "const char* path" Po destructive Pc
Open
.Fa path
and associate it with
.Nm Ns 's
standard output (closing any previously-associated file).
.It Ft void Fn ftruncate
Truncate
.Nm Ns 's
.Li stdout .
.It Ft void Fn kdebug_trace "uint32_t debugid, [uint64_t arg1], [uint64_t arg2], [uint64_t arg3], [uint64_t arg4]"
.Pq destructive ,  Darwin-specific
.br
Emit an event to kdebug trace; arguments are optional and default to zero.
.Fa debugid
is a four-part bit field definied in
.Pa sys/kdebug.h .
.It Ft void Fn kdebug_trace_string "uint32_t debugid, uint64_t str_id, const char* str"
.Pq destructive, Darwin-specific
.br
Emit a string identified with
.Fa str_id
to kdebug trace.
.Fa debugid
is the same as for
.Fn kdebug_trace .
.It Ft _symaddr Fn func "user_addr_t addr"
Print the symbol name corresponding to the kernel address
.Fa addr .
.It Ft _symaddr Fn mod "user_addr_t addr"
Print the module name corresponding to the kernel address
.Fa addr .
.It Ft void Fn normalize "@aggr, int factor"
.\" why is this an action vs. subroutine?  Are aggregations external to
.\" the D program?
When
.Fa @aggr
is traced, all of its values will be divided by
.Fa factor.
.It Ft void Fn denormalize "@aggr"
Remove any normalization factor from
.Fa @aggr .
Tracing this aggregation will return the total counts.
.It Ft void Fn panic Po destructive Pc
Panic the kernel with a generic message.
.It Ft void Fn print "expression"
Pretty-print
.Fa expression
inculding types and internal data structure.  A newline will be included.
.It Ft void Fn printa "[Ft string format], @aggr"
Pretty-print
.Fa @aggr .
.Fa format
can refer to the aggregation's keys in order.  The aggregation's value
can be accessed with the flag
.Sq @ .
For example, to print just aggregations values, one per line
.Dl printa("%@u\en", @a);
.It Ft void Fn printf "string format, ..."
Print a custom-formatted string like
.Xr printf 3 .
.It Ft void Fn raise "int signum" Po destructive Pc
Send
.Fa signum
to the current process.
.It Ft void Fn setopt "const char* option, [const char* value]"
Set a dynamic run-time option.  See
.Sx Dynamic Run-time Options Ns .
.It Ft void Fn speculate "int specid"
Set the speculative buffer
.Fa specid
as the destination for all further tracing in the current D program clause.
.It Ft stack Fn stack "[int nframes]"
Record a kernel stack trace up to
.Fa nframes
deep.  If
.Fa nframes
is not specified, record up to
.Ar stackframes
frames.  See also
.Sx Run-time Options .
.It Ft void Fn stop Po destructive Pc
Stop the current user process.
.It Ft void Fn pidresume "pid_t pid" Po destructive, Darwin-specific Pc
Resume the process specified by
.Fa pid .
See also
.Fn stop
and
.Fn raise .
.It Ft _symaddr Fn sym "user_addr_t addr"
Print the symbol name for the kernel address
.Fa addr .
.It Ft void Fn system "string program, ..." Po destructive Pc
Spawn
.Fa program
with any provided arguments in the same environment as
.Nm Ns .
.It Ft void Fn trace "expression"
Print
.Fa expression .
No newline is emitted.
.It Ft void Fn tracemem "addr, size_t nbytes"
Print a hexidecimal representation of
.Fa nbytes
starting at the kernel address
.Fa addr .
.It Ft void Fn trunc "@aggr, [topn]"
Discard keys and their corresponding values from
.Fa @aggr ,
optionally preserving the
.Fa topn
values and their corresponding keys.
.It Ft _usymaddr Fn uaddr "user_addr_t addr"
If available, pretty-print symbol information about the current user space
address
.Fa addr .
This information will include applicable module, function, and symbol
names, as well as offsets into functions for code. If not available or
applicable, just print
.Fa addr .
.It Ft _usymaddr Fn usym "user_addr_t addr"
If available, print the name of the symbol representing
.Fa addr
in the current process's user address space.  Otherwise, print
.Fa addr .
.It Ft _usymaddr Fn ufunc "user_addr_t addr"
If
.Fa addr
is within the boundaries of a known function in the current user space
process, print the name of the function.  Otherwise, print
.Fa addr .
.It Ft _usymaddr Fn umod "user_addr_t addr"
If
.Fa addr
is within the boundaries of a known module in the current user space
process, print the name of the module.
Otherwise, print
.Fa addr .
.It Ft stack Fn ustack "[int nframes]"
Record a user stack trace up to
.Fa nframes
deep.  If
.Fa nframes
isn't specified, record up to
.Ar ustackframes
frames.  See also
.Sx Run-time Options .
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
The following exit statuses are returned:
.Bl -tag
.It 0
Successful completion.
.Pp
For D program requests, an exit status of 0 indicates that programs were
successfully compiled, probes were successfully enabled, or anonymous state
was successfully retrieved.
.Nm
returns 0 even if the specified tracing requests encountered errors or drops.
.It 1
An error occurred.
.Pp
For D program requests, an exit status of 1 indicates that program compilation
failed or that the specified request could not be satisfied.
.It 2
Invalid command line options or arguments were specified.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr clang 1 ,
.Xr bitesize.d 1m ,
.Xr cpuwalk.d 1m ,
.Xr csrutil 8 ,
.Xr diskhits 1m ,
.Xr dtruss 1m ,
.Xr errinfo 1m ,
.Xr execsnoop 1m ,
.Xr iofile.d 1m ,
.Xr iofileb.d 1m ,
.Xr iopattern.d 1m ,
.Xr iopending.d 1m ,
.Xr iosnoop 1m ,
.Xr iotop 1m ,
.Xr kill.d 1m ,
.Xr lastwords 1m ,
.Xr newproc.d 1m ,
.Xr opensnoop 1m
.\" What are the criteria for being included?  Should weblatency.d be here?
.\" Others?
.\" The following are commented out because they aren't present on Darwin.
.\" .Xr pathopens 1m ,
.\" .Xr rwsnoop.d 1m ,
.\" .Xr rwtop.d 1m ,
.\" .Xr topsyscall.d 1m ,
.\" .Xr topsysproc.d 1m
.Rs
.%T How to Use Oracle Solaris DTrace from Oracle Solaris and OpenSolaris System
.%Q Oracle Corporation
.%D 2010
.%O http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/server-storage/solaris10/solaris-dtrace-wp-167895.pdf
.Re
.Rs
.%T Solaris Dynamic Tracing Guide
.%Q Oracle Corporation
.%D 2010
.%O http://docs.oracle.com/cd/E19253-01/817-6223/
.Re
