.Dd 01 Sep 2016
.\" 10.13 revision: so far, minor tense changes
.\" preview changes to this file with 'man Documentation/hdiutil.1'
.Os "macOS"
.Dt HDIUTIL 1
.Sh NAME
.Nm hdiutil
.Nd manipulate disk images (attach, verify, create, etc)
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ar verb
.Op options
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
uses the DiskImages framework to manipulate disk images.
Common verbs include
.Sy "attach",
.Sy "detach",
.Sy "verify",
.Sy "create",
.Sy "convert",
and
.Sy "compact".
.Pp
The rest of the verbs are currently:
.Sy "help",
.Sy "info",
.Sy "burn",
.Sy "checksum",
.Sy "chpass",
.Sy "erasekeys",
.Sy "unflatten",
.Sy "flatten",
.Sy "imageinfo",
.Sy "isencrypted",
.Sy "mountvol",
.Sy "unmount,
.Sy "plugins",
.Sy "udifrez",
.Sy "udifderez",
.Sy "internet-enable",
.Sy "resize",
.Sy "segment",
.Sy "makehybrid",
and
.Sy "pmap".
.\"
.Sh BACKGROUND
Disk images are data containers that emulate disks.  Like disks, they can
be partitioned and formatted.  Many common uses of disk images blur the
distinction between the disk image container and its content, but this
distinction is critical to understanding how disk images work.  The terms
"attach" and "detach" are used to distinguish the way disk images are
connected to and disconnected from a system.  "Mount" and "unmount" are
the parallel filesystems options.
.Pp
For example, when you double-click a disk image in the macOS Finder,
two separate things happen.  First, the image is "attached" to the system
just like an external drive.  Then, the kernel and Disk Arbitration probe
the new device for recognized file structures.  If any are discovered that
should be mounted, the associated volumes will mount and appear on the desktop.
.Pp
When using disk images, always consider whether an operation applies to
the blocks of the disk image container or to the (often file-oriented)
content of the image.  For example,
.Nm
.Sy verify
verifies that the blocks stored in a read-only disk image have not changed
since it was created.  It does not check whether the filesystem stored
within the image is self-consistent (as
.Sy diskutil verifyVolume
would). On the other hand,
.Nm
.Sy create
.Fl srcfolder
creates a disk image container, puts a filesystem in it, and then copies
the specified files to the new filesystem.
.\"
.Sh COMMON OPTIONS
The following option descriptions apply to all verbs:
.Pp
.Bl -hang -width "verbose"
.It Fl verbose
be verbose: produce extra progress output and error diagnostics.  This
option can help the user decipher why a particular operation failed.  At
a minimum, the probing of any specified images will be detailed.
.It Fl quiet
close stdout and stderr, leaving only
.Nm hdiutil Ns 's
exit status to indicate success or failure.  No /dev entries or mount points
will be printed.
.Fl debug
and
.Fl verbose
disable
.Fl quiet .
.It Fl debug
be very verbose.  This option is good if a large amount of progress information
is needed.  As of Mac OS X 10.6,
.Fl debug
enables
.Fl verbose .
.El
.Pp
.\"             -- other common opts --
Many
.Nm
verbs understand the following options:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "-puppetstrings"
.It Fl plist
provide result output in plist format.  Other programs invoking
.Nm
are expected to use
.Fl plist
rather than try to parse the human-readable output.
The usual output is consistent but generally unstructured.
.It Fl puppetstrings
provide progress output that is easy for another program to parse.
PERCENTAGE outputs can include the value -1 which means
.Nm
is performing an operation that will take an indeterminate amount of time
to complete.  Any program trying to interpret
.Nm hdiutil Ns 's
progress should use
.Fl puppetstrings .
.Pp
.It Fl srcimagekey Ar key=value
specify a key/value pair for the disk image recognition system.
.Ns ( Fl imagekey
is normally a synonym)
.It Fl tgtimagekey Ar key=value
specify a key/value pair for any image created.
.Ns ( Fl imagekey
is only a synonym if there is no input image).
.Pp
.It Fl encryption Op Ar AES-128|AES-256
specify a particular type of encryption or, if not specified, the default
encryption algorithm.  As of OS X 10.7, the default algorithm is the AES cipher
running in CBC mode on 512-byte blocks with a 128-bit key.
.It Fl stdinpass
read a null-terminated passphrase from standard input.  If the standard
input is a tty, the passphrase will be read with
.Xr readpassphrase 3 .
Otherwise, the password is read from stdin.
.Fl stdinpass
replaces
.Fl passphrase
which has been deprecated.
.Fl passphrase
is insecure because its argument appears in the output of
.Xr ps 1
where it is visible to other users and processes on the system.  See
EXAMPLES.
.It Fl agentpass
force the default behavior of prompting for a passphrase.  Useful with
.Fl pubkey
to create an image protected by both a passphrase and a public key.
.It Fl recover Ar keychain_file
specify a keychain containing the secret corresponding to the certificate
specified with
.Fl certificate
when the image was created.
.It Fl certificate Ar cert_file
specify a secondary access certificate for an encrypted image.
.Ar cert_file
must be DER-encoded certificate data, which can be created by Keychain
Access or
.Xr openssl 1 .
.It Fl pubkey Ar PK1,PK2,...,PKn
specify a list of public keys, identified by their hexadecimal hashes,
to be used to protect the encrypted image being created.
.It Fl cacert Ar cert
specify a certificate authority certificate.
.Ar cert
can be either a PEM file or a directory of certificates processed by
.Xr c_rehash 1 Ns .
See also
.Fl -capath
and
.Fl -cacert
in
.Xr curl 1 Ns .
.It Fl insecurehttp
ignore SSL host validation failures.  Useful for self-signed servers for
which the appropriate certificates are unavailable or if access to a
server is desired when the server name doesn't match what is in the
certificate.
.Pp
.\"
.\"             -- -shadow --
.It Fl shadow Op Ar shadowfile
Use a shadow file in conjunction with the data in the primary image file.
This option prevents modification of the original image and allows
read-only images to be attached read/write.  When blocks are being read
from the image, blocks present in the shadow file override blocks in the
base image.  All data written to an attached device will be redirected
to the shadow file.  If not specified,
.Ar shadowfile
defaults to
.Ar image Ns .shadow.
If the shadow file does not exist, it is created.
.Nm
verbs taking images as input accept
.Fl shadow ,
.Fl cacert ,
and
.Fl insecurehttp Ns .
.El
.Pp
Verbs that create images automatically append the correct extension to any
filenames if the extension is not already present.  The creation engine
also examines the filename extension of the provided filename and changes
its behavior accordingly.  For example, a sparse bundle image can be created
without specifying -type SPARSEBUNDLE simply by appending the .sparsebundle
extension to the provided filename.
.\"
.Sh VERBS
Each verb is listed with its description and individual arguments.
Arguments to the verbs can be passed in any order.  A sector is 512 bytes.
.\" begin verb list
.Bl -hang -width "imageinfo"
.\"
.\"             -- help --
.It Sy help
display minimal usage information for each verb.
.Nm
.Ar verb
.Fl help
will provide basic usage information for that verb.
.\"
.\"             -- attach --
.It Sy attach Ar image Op Ar options
.br
attach a disk image as a device.
.Sy attach
will return information about an already-attached image as if it had
attached it.  If any associated volumes are unmounted (and mounting is
not suppressed), they will be remounted.
.Sy mount
is a poorly-named synonym for
.Sy "attach" .
See BACKGROUND.
.Pp
By default, the system applies additional mount options to filesystems
backed by untrusted devices like disk images: options like nosuid and
quarantine.  PERMISSIONS VS. OWNERS explains the behavior of such
filesystems and EXAMPLES shows how to override some of the default
behavior.
.Pp
The output of
.Sy attach
has been stable since Mac OS X 10.0 (though it was called
.Xr hdid 8
then) and is intended to be program-readable.  It consists of the /dev
node, a tab, a content hint (if applicable), another tab, and a mount
point (if any filesystems were mounted).  Because content hints are derived
from the partition data, GUID Partition Table types may leak through.
Common GUIDs such as "48465300-0000-11AA-AA11-0030654" are mapped to their
human-readable counterparts (here "Apple_HFS").
.Pp
Common options:
.Fl "encryption",
.Fl "stdinpass",
.Fl "recover",
.Fl "imagekey",
.Fl "shadow",
.Fl puppetstrings ,
and
.Fl "plist".
.Pp
Options:
.Bl -hang -width "-mountrandom path" -compact
.It Fl readonly
force the resulting device to be read-only
.It Fl readwrite
attempt to override the DiskImages framework's decision to attach a
particular image read-only.  For example,
.Fl readwrite
can be used to modify the HFS+ filesystem on a HFS+/ISO hybrid CD image.
.It Fl nokernel
attach with a helper process.  This is (again) the default as of Mac OS
X 10.5.
.It Fl kernel
attempt to attach this image without a helper process; fail if unsupported.
Only UDRW, UDRO, UDZO, ULFO, and UDSP images are supported in-kernel.  Encryption
and HTTP are supported by the kernel driver.
.\"
.It Fl notremovable
prevent this image from being detached.  Only root can use this option.
A reboot is necessary to cleanly detach an image attached with
.Fl notremovable .
.Pp
.It Fl mount Ar required|optional|suppressed
.br
indicate whether filesystems in the image should be mounted or not.
The default is
.Ar required
.Ns ( Sy attach
will fail if no filesystems mount).
.It Fl nomount
identical to
.Fl mount Ar "suppressed".
.It Fl mountroot Ar path
mount volumes on subdirectories of
.Ar path
instead of under
.Pa /Volumes .
.Ar path
must exist.
Full mount point paths must be less than MNAMELEN characters (increased
from 90 to 1024 in Mac OS X 10.6).
.\" 4063851 tracks better than "no mountable fsys" error for ENOENT here
.It Fl mountrandom Ar path
like
.Fl mountroot ,
but mount point directory names are randomized with
.Xr mkdtemp 3 .
.It Fl mountpoint Ar path
assuming only one volume, mount it at
.Ar path
instead of in
.Pa /Volumes.
See
.Xr fstab 5
for ways a system administrator can make particular volumes automatically
mount in particular filesystem locations by editing the file /etc/fstab.
.It Fl nobrowse
render any volumes invisible in applications such as the macOS Finder.
.It Fl owners Ar on|off
specify that owners on any filesystems be honored or not.
.It Fl drivekey Ar key=value
.br
specify a key/value pair to be set on the device in the IOKit registry.
.It Fl section Ar subspec
.br
Attach a subsection of a disk image.
.Ar subspec
is any of <offset>, <first-last>, or <start,count> in 0-based sectors.
Ranges are inclusive.
.El
.Pp
The following options have corresponding elements in the
.Ar com.apple.frameworks.diskimages
preferences domain and thus can be rendered in both the positive and the
negative to override any existing preferences.
.Pp
.Bl -hang -width "-mountpoint path" -compact
.It Fl [no]verify
do [not] verify the image.  By default,
.Nm
.Sy attach
attempts to intelligently verify images that contain checksums before
attaching them.  If
.Nm
can write to an image it has verified,
.Sy attach
will store an attribute with the image so that it will not be verified
again unless its timestamp changes.  To maintain backwards
compatibility,
.Xr hdid 8
does not attempt to verify images before attaching them.
.br
Preferences keys: skip-verify, skip-verify-remote, skip-verify-locked,
skip-previously-verified
.It Fl [no]ignorebadchecksums
.br
specify whether bad checksums should be ignored.  The default is to abort
when a bad checksum is detected.
.br
Preferences key: ignore-bad-checksums
.It Fl [no]idme
do [not] perform IDME actions on IDME images.  IDME actions are not
performed by default.
.br
Preferences key: skip-idme
.It Fl [no]idmereveal
do [not] reveal (in the Finder) the results of IDME processing.
.br
Preferences key: skip-idme-reveal
.It Fl [no]idmetrash
do [not] put IDME images in the trash after processing.
.br
Preferences key: skip-idme-trash
.It Fl [no]autoopen
do [not] auto-open volumes (in the Finder) after attaching an image.
By default, double-clicking a read-only disk image causes the resulting
volume to be opened in the Finder.
.Nm
defaults to
.Fl noautoopen Ns .
.It Fl [no]autoopenro
do [not] auto-open read-only volumes.
.br
Preferences key: auto-open-ro-root
.It Fl [no]autoopenrw
do [not] auto-open read/write volumes.
.br
Preferences key: auto-open-rw-root
.\" meaning don't fully process them?
.It Fl [no]autofsck
do [not] force automatic file system checking before mounting a disk
image.  By default, only quarantined images (e.g. downloaded from the
Internet) that have not previously passed fsck are checked.
.br
Preferences key: auto-fsck
.El
.\"
.\"             -- detach --
.It Sy detach Ar dev_name Op Fl force
.br
detach a disk image and terminate any associated process.
.Ar dev_name
is a partial /dev node path (e.g. "disk1").  As of Mac OS X 10.4,
.Ar dev_name
can also be a mountpoint.  If Disk Arbitration is running,
.Sy detach
will use it to unmount any filesystems and detach the image.  If not,
.Sy detach
will attempt to unmount any filesystems and detach the image directly
(using the
.Ql eject
ioctl).  If Disk Arbitration is not running, it may be necessary to unmount
the filesystems with
.Xr umount 8
before detaching the image.
.Sy eject
is a synonym for
.Ns Sy detach .
In common operation,
.Sy detach
is very similar to
.Xr diskutil 8 Ns 's
.Sy eject .
.Pp
Options:
.Bl -hang -width "verbose" -compact
.It Fl force
ignore open files on mounted volumes, etc.
.El
.\"
.\"             -- verify --
.It Sy verify Ar image Op Ar options
.br
compute the checksum of a "read-only" or "compressed" image and verify
it against the value stored in the image.  Read/write images don't
contain checksums and thus can't be verified.
.Sy verify
accepts the common options
.Fl "encryption",
.Fl "stdinpass",
.Fl "srcimagekey",
.Fl puppetstrings ,
and
.Fl "plist".
.Pp
.\"
.\"             -- create --
.It Sy create Ar size_spec image
.br
create a new image of the given size or from the provided data.  If
.Ar image
already exists,
.Fl ov
must be specified or
.Sy create
will fail.
To make a cross-platform CD or DVD, use
.Sy makehybrid
instead.  See also EXAMPLES below.
.Pp
.\"                             Size Specifiers
The size specified is the size of the image to be created.  Filesystem
and partition layout overhead (80 sectors for the default GPTSPUD layout
on Intel machines) may not be available for the filesystem and user data
in the image.
.br
Size specifiers:
.Bl -hang -width "megabytes" -compact
.It Fl size Ar ??b|??k|??m|??g|??t|??p|??e
.br
Specify the size of the image in the style of
.Xr mkfile 8
with the addition of tera-, peta-, and exa-bytes sizes (note that 'b'
specifies a number of sectors, not bytes).  The larger sizes are useful
for large sparse images.
.\" need to move users towards kibibytes, etc
.\" XX need to compare -[segment]size behavior
.It Fl sectors Ar sector_count
.br
Specify the size of the image file in 512-byte sectors.
.It Fl megabytes Ar size
.br
Specify the size of the image file in megabytes (1024*1024 bytes).
.Pp
.It Fl srcfolder Ar source
.br
copies file-by-file the contents of
.Ar source
into
.Ar image ,
creating a fresh (theoretically defragmented) filesystem on the destination.
The resulting image is thus recommended for use with
.Xr asr 8
since it will have a minimal amount of unused space.  Its size will be
that of the source data plus some padding for filesystem overhead.  The
filesystem type of the image volume will match that of the source as
closely as possible unless overridden with
.Fl fs .
Other size specifiers, such as
.Fl size ,
will override the default size calculation based on the source content,
allowing for more or less free space in the resulting filesystem.
.Fl srcfolder
can be specified more than once, in which case the image volume will be
populated at the top level with a copy of each specified filesystem object.
.Fl srcdir
is a synonym.
.It Fl srcdevice Ar device
.br
specifies that the blocks of
.Ar device
should be used to create a new image.  The image size will match the size
of
.Ar device .
.Sy resize
can be used to adjust the size of resizable filesystems and writable
images.  Both
.Fl srcdevice
and
.Fl srcfolder
can run into errors if there are bad blocks on a disk.  One way around
this problem is to write over the files in question in the hopes that the
drive will remap the bad blocks.  Data will be lost, but the image creation
operation will subsequently succeed.  Filesystem options (like
.Fl fs ,
.Fl volname ,
.Fl stretch ,
or
.Fl size )
are invalid and ignored when using
.Fl srcdevice .
.El
.Pp
Common options:
.Fl "encryption",
.Fl "stdinpass",
.Fl "certificate",
.Fl "pubkey",
.Fl "imagekey",
.Fl "tgtimagekey",
.Fl puppetstrings ,
and
.Fl "plist".
.Pp
.Fl imagekey Ar di-sparse-puma-compatible=TRUE
and
.Fl imagekey Ar di-shadow-puma-compatible=TRUE
will create, respectively, sparse and shadow images that can be
attached on Mac OS X 10.1.
.Fl imagekey Ar encrypted-encoding-version
can select between version 1 and version 2 of the encrypted encoding.
The framework preferences have a corresponding key to change the default
for all images.  Version 2 is not compatible with Mac OS X 10.2 but is
more robust for SPARSE (UDSP) images.  Version 1 is the default for
non-sparse images.  As of Mac OS X 10.4.7, sparse encrypted images always
use version 2 and as of Mac OS X 10.5, all encrypted images default to
version 2.
.Pp
General options:
.Bl -hang -width "-volname" -compact
.It Fl align Ar alignment
.br
specifies a size to which the final data partition will be aligned.  The
default is 4K.
.Pp
.It Fl type Ar UDIF|SPARSE|SPARSEBUNDLE
.br
.Fl type
is particular to
.Sy create
and is used to specify the format of empty read/write images.  It is
independent of
.Fl format
which is used to specify the final read-only image format when populating
an image with pre-existing content.
.Pp
UDIF is the default type.  If specified, a UDRW of the specified size
will be created.  SPARSE creates a UDSP: a read/write single-file image
which expands as is is filled with data.  SPARSEBUNDLE creates a UDSB: a
read/write image backed by a directory bundle.
.Pp
By default, UDSP images grow one megabyte at a time.  Introduced in 10.5,
UDSB images use 8 MB band files which grow as they are written to.
.Fl imagekey Ar sparse-band-size=size
can be used to specify the number of 512-byte sectors that will be added
each time the image grows.  Valid values for SPARSEBUNDLE range from 2048
to 16777216 sectors (1 MB to 8 GB).
.Pp
The maximum size of a SPARSE image is 128 petabytes; the maximum for
SPARSEBUNDLE is just under 8 exabytes (2^63 - 512 bytes).
The amount of data that can be stored in either type of sparse image is
additionally bounded by the filesystem in the image and by any partition
map.
.Sy compact
can reclaim unused bands in sparse images backing APFS or HFS+ filesystems.
.Sy resize
will only change the virtual size of a sparse image.  See also USING
PERSISTENT SPARSE IMAGES below.
.Pp
.It Fl fs Ar filesystem
.br
where
.Ar filesystem
is one of several options such as HFS+, HFS+J (JHFS+), HFSX, JHFS+X,
APFS, FAT32, ExFAT, or UDF.  A full list of supported filesystems can
be found in 
.Sy create
.Fl help .
.Fl fs
causes a filesystem of the specified type to be written to the image.
.Fl fs
may change the partition scheme and type appropriately.
.Fl fs
will not make any size adjustments: if the image is the wrong size for the
specified filesystem,
.Sy create
will fail.
.Fl fs
is invalid and ignored when using
.Fl srcdevice .
.It Fl volname Ar volname
.br
The newly-created filesystem will be named
.Ar "volname".
The default depends the filesystem being used; The default volume name
in both HFS+ and APFS is
.Ql untitled .
.Fl volname
is invalid and ignored when using
.Fl srcdevice .
.It Fl uid Ar uid
the root of the newly-created volume will be owned by the given numeric
user id.  99 maps to the magic
.Ql unknown
user (see PERMISSIONS VS. OWNERS).
.It Fl gid Ar gid
the root of the newly-created volume will be owned by the given numeric
group id.  99 maps to
.Ql "unknown".
.It Fl mode Ar mode
the root of the newly-created volume will have mode (in octal)
.Ar "mode".
The default mode is determined by the filesystem's newfs unless
.Fl srcfolder
is specified, in which case the default mode is derived from the specified
filesystem object.
.It Fl [no]autostretch
.br
do [not] suppress automatically making backwards-compatible stretchable
volumes when the volume size crosses the auto-stretch-size threshold
(default: 256 MB).  See also
.Xr asr 8 Ns .
.It Fl stretch Ar max_stretch
.br
.Fl stretch
initializes HFS+ filesystem data such that it can later be stretched on
older systems (which could only stretch within predefined limits) using
.Nm
.Sy resize
or by
.Xr asr 8 .
.Ar max_stretch
is specified like
.Ns Fl size .
.Fl stretch
is invalid and ignored when using
.Fl srcdevice .
.It Fl fsargs Ar newfs_args
.br
additional arguments to pass to whichever newfs program is implied by
.Fl "fs".
As an example with HFS+, 
.Xr newfs_hfs 8
has a number of options that can control the amount of space used by the
filesystem's data structures.
.It Fl layout Ar layout
.br
Specify the partition layout of the image.
.Ar layout
can be anything supported by MediaKit.framework.  NONE creates an image
with no partition map.  When such an image is attached, a single /dev
entry will be created (e.g. /dev/disk1).
.Pp
.Ql SPUD
causes a DDM and an Apple Partition Scheme partition map with a single
entry to be written.
.Ql GPTSPUD
creates a similar image but with a GUID Partition Scheme map instead.
When attached, multiple /dev entries will be created, with either slice
1 (GPT) or slice 2 (APM) as the data partition.  (e.g. /dev/disk1,
/dev/disk1s1, /dev/disk1s2).
.Pp
Unless overridden by
.Ns Fl fs ,
the default layout is
.Ql GPTSPUD
(PPC systems used
.Ql SPUD
prior to Mac OS X 10.6).  Other layouts include
.Ql MBRSPUD
and
.Ql ISOCD .
.Sy create
.Fl help
lists all supported layouts.
.It Fl library Ar bundle
.br
specify an alternate layout library.  The default is MediaKit's
MKDrivers.bundle.
.It Fl partitionType Ar partition_type
.br
Change the type of partition in a single-partition disk image.  The default
is Apple_HFS unless
.Ns Fl fs
implies otherwise.
.Pp
.It Fl ov
overwrite an existing file.  The default is not to overwrite existing
files.
.It Fl attach
attach the image after creating it.  If no filesystem is specified via
.Fl "fs",
the attach will fail per the default
.Sy attach Fl mount Ar required
behavior.
.El
.Pp
Image from source options (for
.Fl srcfolder
and
.Fl srcdevice Ns ):
.Bl -hang -width "partitionType" -compact
.It Fl format Ar format
Specify the final image format.  The default when a source is specified
is UDZO.
.Ar format
can be any of the format parameters used by
.Sy convert .
.El
.Pp
Options specific to
.Fl srcdevice Ns :
.Bl -hang -width "partitionType" -compact
.It Fl segmentSize Ar size_spec
.br
Specify that the image should be written in segments no bigger than
.Ar size_spec
(which follows
.Fl size
conventions).
.El
.Pp
Options specific to
.Fl srcfolder Ns :
.Bl -hang -width "skipunreadable" -compact
.It Fl [no]crossdev
do [not] cross device boundaries on the source filesystem.
.It Fl [no]scrub
do [not] skip temporary files when imaging a volume.
Scrubbing is the default when the source is the root of a mounted volume.
Scrubbed items include trashes, temporary directories, swap files, etc.
.It Fl [no]anyowners
do not fail if the user invoking
.Nm
can't ensure correct file ownership for the files in the image.
.It Fl skipunreadable
skip files that can't be read by the copying user and don't authenticate.
.It Fl [no]atomic
do [not] copy files to a temporary location and then rename them to their destination.  Atomic copies are the default.  Non-atomic copying may be slightly faster.
.It Fl copyuid Ar user
perform the copy as the given user.  Requires root privilege.  If
.Ar user
can't read or create files with the needed owners,
.Fl anyowners
or
.Fl skipunreadable
must be used to prevent the operation from failing.
.El
.Pp
By default,
.Sy create
.Fl srcfolder
attempts to maintain the permissions present in the source directory.
It prompts for authentication if it detects an unreadable file, a file
owned by someone other than the user creating the image, or a SGID file
in a group that the copying user is not in.
.\"
.\"             -- convert --
.It Sy convert Ar image
.Fl format
.Ar format
.Fl o
.Ar outfile
.br
convert
.Ar image
to type
.Ar format
and write the result to
.Ar outfile Ns .
.Pp
As with
.Sy create ,
the correct filename extension will be added only if it isn't part of the
provided name.
.Ar Format
is one of:
.Pp
.Bl -item -offset indent -compact
.It
UDRW - UDIF read/write image
.It
UDRO - UDIF read-only image
.It
UDCO - UDIF ADC-compressed image
.It
UDZO - UDIF zlib-compressed image
.It
ULFO - UDIF lzfse-compressed image (OS X 10.11+ only)
.It
UDBZ - UDIF bzip2-compressed image (Mac OS X 10.4+ only)
.It
UDTO - DVD/CD-R master for export
.It
UDSP - SPARSE (grows with content)
.It
UDSB - SPARSEBUNDLE (grows with content; bundle-backed)
.It
UFBI - UDIF entire image with MD5 checksum
.It
UDRo - UDIF read-only (obsolete format)
.It
UDCo - UDIF compressed (obsolete format)
.It
RdWr - NDIF read/write image (deprecated)
.It
Rdxx - NDIF read-only image (Disk Copy 6.3.3 format; deprecated)
.It
ROCo - NDIF compressed image (deprecated)
.It
Rken - NDIF compressed (obsolete format)
.It
DC42 - Disk Copy 4.2 image (obsolete format)
.El
.Pp
In addition to the compression offered by some formats, the UDIF and NDIF
read-only formats skip unused space in HFS, APFS, ExFAT, and MS-DOS (FAT, FAT32)
filesystems.  For UDZO,
.Fl imagekey Ar zlib-level=value
allows the zlib compression level to be specified a la
.Xr gzip 1 Ns .
The default compression level is 1 (fastest).
.Pp
Common options:
.Fl "encryption",
.Fl "stdinpass",
.Fl "certificate",
.Fl "srcimagekey",
.Fl "tgtimagekey",
.Fl "shadow"
and related,
.Fl puppetstrings ,
and
.Fl "plist".
.Pp
Other options:
.Bl -hang -width "segmentSize" -compact
.It Fl align Ar alignment
.br
The default is 4 (2K).
.It Fl pmap
add partition map.
.br
When converting an NDIF to any variety of UDIF, or when converting an
unpartitioned UDIF, the default is true.
.It Fl segmentSize
.Op Ar size_spec
.br
Specify segmentation into
.Ar size_spec Ns -sized
segments as
.Ar outfile
is being written.  The default
.Ar size_spec
when
.Fl segmentSize
is specified alone is 2*1024*1024 (1 GB worth of sectors) for UDTO images
and 4*1024*1024 (2 GB segments) for all other image types.
.Ar size_spec
can also be specified ??b|??k|??m|??g|??t|??p|??e like
.Sy "create" Ns 's
.Fl size
flag.
.It Fl tasks Ar task_count
.br
When converting an image into a compressed format, specify the number of
threads to use for the compression operation.  The default is the number
of processors active in the current system.
.El
.\"
.\"             -- burn --
.It Sy burn Ar image
.br
Burn
.Ar image
to optical media in an attached burning device.  In all cases, a prompt
for media will be printed once an appropriate drive has been found.  Common
options:
.Fl "shadow"
and related,
.Fl "srcimagekey",
.Fl "encryption",
.Fl puppetstrings ,
and
.Fl "stdinpass".
.Pp
Other options:
.Bl -hang -width "[no]skipfinalfree" -compact
.It Fl device
specify a device to use for burning.  See
.Fl list Ns .
.It Fl testburn
don't turn on laser (laser defaults to on).
.It Fl anydevice
explicitly allow burning to devices not qualified by Apple (kept for
backwards compatibility as
.Sy burn
will burn to any device by default as of Mac OS X 10.4).
.Pp
.It Fl [no]eject
do [not] eject disc after burning. The default is to eject the disc.
.It Fl [no]verifyburn
do [not] verify disc contents after burn.  The default is to verify.
.Pp
.It Fl [no]addpmap
do [not] add partition map if necessary.  Some filesystem types will not be
recognized when stored on optical media unless they are enclosed in a
partition map.  This option will add a partition map to any bare filesystem
which needs a partition map in order to be recognized when burned to
optical media.  The default is to add the partition map if needed.
.Pp
.It Fl [no]skipfinalfree
do [not] skip final free partition.  If there is a partition map on the image
specifying an Apple_Free partition as the last partition, that Apple_Free
partition will not be burned.  The burned partition map will still
reference the empty space.  The default is to skip burning a final free partition.
.Pp
.It Fl [no]optimizeimage
do [not] optimize filesystem for burning.  Optimization can reduce the
size of an HFS+ volume to the size of the data contained on the
volume.  This option will change what is burned such that the disc will
have a different checksum than the image it came from.  The default is to
burn all blocks of the disk image (minus any trailing Apple_Free).
.Pp
.It Fl [no]forceclose
do [not] force the disc to be closed after burning.  Further burns to the disc
will be impossible.  The default is not to close the disc.
.Pp
.It Fl nounderrun
Disable the default buffer underrun protection.
.Pp
.It Fl [no]synthesize
[Don't] Synthesize a hybrid filesystem for the disc.  The default is to
create a new (HFS+/ISO) filesystem when burning the source image's blocks
would not result in a valid disc.
.Pp
.It Fl speed Ar x_factor
1, 2, 4, 6, ...
.Ql max
.br
The desired
.Qq x-factor Ns .
e.g. 8 means the drive will be instructed burn at
.Qq 8x speed Ns .
.Ql max
will cause the burn to proceed at the maximum speed of the drive.
.Ql max
is the default speed.  Slower speeds can produce more reliable burns.
The speed factor is relative to the media being burned (e.g.
.Fl speed Ar 2
has a different data rate when used for a DVD burn vs. a CD burn).
Note that some drives have a minimum burn speed in which case any slower
speed specified will result in a burn at the drive's minimum speed.
.Pp
.It Fl sizequery
calculate the size of disc required without burning anything.  The size is
returned in sectors.
.Pp
.It Fl erase
prompt for optical media (DVD-RW/CD-RW) and then, if the hardware supports
it, quickly erase the media.  If an image is specified, it will be burned
to the media after the media has been erased.
.It Fl fullerase
erase all sectors of the disc.  This usually takes quite a bit longer than
.Fl erase Ns .
.It Fl list
list all burning devices, with OpenFirmware paths suitable for
.Fl device Ns .
.El
.\"
.\"             -- makehybrid --
.It Sy makehybrid Fl o Ar image Ar source
.br
Generate a potentially-hybrid filesystem in a read-only disk image
using the DiscRecording framework's content creation system.  This
disk image will represent a data disc.
.Xr drutil 1
can be used to make audio discs.
.Pp
.Ar source
can either be a directory or a disk image.  The generated image can later
be burned using
.Sy "burn",
or converted to another read-only format with
.Sy "convert".
By default, the filesystem will be readable on most modern computing
platforms.  The generated filesystem is not intended for conversion
to read/write, but can safely have its files copied to a read/write
filesystem using
.Xr ditto 8 .
.Pp
.Nm
supports generating El Torito-style bootable ISO9660 filesystems, which are
commonly used for booting x86-based hardware. The specification includes
several emulation modes. By default, an El Torito boot image emulates either
a 1.2MB, 1.44MB, or 2.88MB floppy drive, depending on the size of the image.
Also available are
.Qo \&No Emulation Qc
and
.Qo Hard Disk Emulation Qc
modes, which allow the boot image to either be loaded directly into memory,
or be virtualized as a partitioned hard disk, respectively. The El Torito
options should not be used for data CDs.
.Pp
.\"                             Filesystem options
Filesystem options:
.Bl -hang -width "joliet" -compact
.It Fl hfs
Generate an HFS+ filesystem.  This filesystem can be present on an image
simultaneously with an ISO9660 or Joliet or UDF filesystem.  On operating
systems that understand HFS+ as well as ISO9660 and UDF, like Mac OS 9
or OS X, HFS+ is usually the preferred filesystem for hybrid images.
.It Fl iso
Generate an ISO9660 Level 2 filesystem with Rock Ridge extensions.  This
filesystem can be present on an image simultaneously with an HFS+ or
Joliet or UDF filesystem.  ISO9660 is the standard cross-platform
interchange format for CDs and some DVDs, and is understood by virtually
all operating systems.  If an ISO9660 or Joliet filesystem is present on
a disk image or CD, but not HFS+, OS X will use the ISO9660 (or Joliet)
filesystem.
.It Fl joliet
Generate Joliet extensions to ISO9660.  This view of the filesystem can
be present on an image simultaneously with HFS+, and requires the presence
of an ISO9660 filesystem.  Joliet supports Unicode filenames, but is only
supported on some operating systems.  If both an ISO9660 and Joliet
filesystem are present on a disk image or CD, but not HFS+, OS X will
prefer the Joliet filesystem.
.It Fl udf
Generate a UDF filesystem. This filesystem can be present on an image
simultaneously with HFS+, ISO9660, and Joliet. UDF is the standard
interchange format for DVDs, although operating system support varies
based on OS version and UDF version.
.El
.Pp
By default, if no filesystem is specified, the image will be created with
all four filesystems as a hybrid image.  When multiple filesystems are
selected, the data area of the image is shared between all filesystems,
and only directory information and volume meta-data are unique to each
filesystem.  This means that creating a cross-platform ISO9660/HFS+ hybrid
has a minimal overhead when compared to a single filesystem image.
.Pp
.\"                             Other makehybrid options
Other options (most take a single argument):
.Bl -hang -width "hfs-blessed-directory" -compact
.It Fl hfs-blessed-directory
Path to directory which should be
.Qo blessed Qc
for OS X booting on the generated filesystem.  This assumes the directory
has been otherwise prepared, for example with
bless
.Fl bootinfo
to create a valid
.Em BootX
file.
(HFS+ only).
.It Fl hfs-openfolder
Path to a directory that will be opened by the Finder automatically.  See
also the
.Fl openfolder
option in
.Xr bless 8
(HFS+ only).
.It Fl hfs-startupfile-size
Allocate an empty HFS+ Startup File of the specified size, in bytes (HFS+
only).
.Pp
.It Fl abstract-file
Path to a file in the source directory (and thus the root of the generated
filesystem) for use as the ISO9660/Joliet Abstract file (ISO9660/Joliet).
.It Fl bibliography-file
Path to a file in the source directory (and thus the root of the generated
filesystem) for use as the ISO9660/Joliet Bibliography file
(ISO9660/Joliet).
.It Fl copyright-file
Path to a file in the source directory (and thus the root of the generated
filesystem) for use as the ISO9660/Joliet Copyright file (ISO9660/Joliet).
.It Fl application
Application string (ISO9660/Joliet).
.It Fl preparer
Preparer string (ISO9660/Joliet).
.It Fl publisher
Publisher string (ISO9660/Joliet).
.It Fl system-id
System Identification string (ISO9660/Joliet).
.It Fl keep-mac-specific
Expose Macintosh-specific files (such as .DS_Store) in non-HFS+ filesystems
(ISO9660/Joliet).
.It Fl eltorito-boot
Path to an El Torito boot image within the source directory. By
default, floppy drive emulation is used, so the image must be one
of 1200KB, 1440KB, or 2880KB. If the image has a different size,
either
.Fl no-emul-boot
or
.Fl hard-disk-boot
must be used to enable
.Qo \&No Emulation Qc
or
.Qo Hard Disk Emulation Qc
mode, respectively (ISO9660/Joliet).
.It Fl hard-disk-boot
Use El Torito Hard Disk Emulation mode. The image must represent a virtual
device with an MBR partition map and a single partition
.It Fl no-emul-boot
Use El Torito No Emulation mode. The system firmware will load the number
of sectors specified by
.Fl boot-load-size
and execute it, without emulating any devices (ISO9660/Joliet).
.It Fl no-boot
Mark the El Torito image as non-bootable. The system firmware may still
create a virtual device backed by this data. This option is not recommended
\&(ISO9660/Joliet).
.It Fl boot-load-seg
For a No Emulation boot image, load the data at the specified segment address.
This options is not recommended, so that the system firmware can use
its default address (ISO9660/Joliet)
.It Fl boot-load-size
For a No Emulation boot image, load the specified number of 512-byte emulated
sectors into memory and execute it. By default, 4 sectors (2KB) will be loaded
\&(ISO9660/Joliet).
.It Fl eltorito-platform
Use the specified numeric platform ID in the El Torito Boot Catalog
Validation Entry or Section Header. Defaults to 0 to identify x86 hardware (ISO/Joliet).
.It Fl eltorito-specification
For complex layouts involving multiple boot images, a plist-formatted string
can be provided, using either OpenStep-style syntax or XML syntax, representing
an array of dictionaries. Any of the El Torito options can be set in the
sub-dictionaries and will apply to that boot image only. If
.Fl eltorito-specification
is provided in addition to the normal El Torito command-line options,
the specification will be used to populate secondary non-default boot entries.
.It Fl udf-version
Version of UDF filesystem to generate. This can be either "1.02" or "1.50".
If not specified, it defaults to "1.50" (UDF).
.Pp
.It Fl default-volume-name
Default volume name for all filesystems, unless overridden.  If not specified,
defaults to the last path component of
.Ar source Ns .
.It Fl hfs-volume-name
Volume name for just the HFS+ filesystem if it should be different (HFS+ only).
.It Fl iso-volume-name
Volume name for just the ISO9660 filesystem if it should be different
(ISO9660 only).
.It Fl joliet-volume-name
Volume name for just the Joliet filesystem if it should be different (Joliet
only).
.It Fl udf-volume-name
Volume name for just the UDF filesystem if it should be different (UDF only).
.Pp
.It Fl hide-all
A glob expression of files and directories that should not be exposed in
the generated filesystems.  The string may need to be quoted to avoid shell
expansion, and will be passed to
.Xr glob 3
for evaluation.  Although this option cannot be used multiple times, an
arbitrarily complex glob expression can be used.
.It Fl hide-hfs
A glob expression of files and directories that should not be exposed via
the HFS+ filesystem, although the data may still be present for use by
other filesystems (HFS+ only).
.It Fl hide-iso
A glob expression of files and directories that should not be exposed via
the ISO filesystem, although the data may still be present for use by other
filesystems (ISO9660 only).  Per above, the Joliet hierarchy will supersede
the ISO hierarchy when the hybrid is mounted as an ISO 9660 filesystem on
OS X.  Therefore, if Joliet is being generated (the default)
.Fl hide-joliet
will also be needed to hide the file from
.Xr mount_cd9660 8 .
.It Fl hide-joliet
A glob expression of files and directories that should not be exposed via
the Joliet filesystem, although the data may still be present for use by
other filesystems (Joliet only).  Because OS X's ISO 9660 filesystem
uses the Joliet catalog if it is available,
.Fl hide-joliet
effectively supersedes
.Fl hide-iso
when the resulting filesystem is mounted as ISO on OS X.
.It Fl hide-udf
A glob expression of files and directories that should not be exposed via
the UDF filesystem, although the data may still be present for use by other
filesystems (UDF only).
.It Fl only-udf
A glob expression of objects that should only be exposed in UDF.
.It Fl only-iso
A glob expression of objects that should only be exposed in ISO.
.It Fl only-joliet
A glob expression of objects that should only be exposed in Joliet.
.\" XX need to add Ar expr to all of these
.Pp
.It Fl print-size
Preflight the data and calculate an upper bound on the size of the image.  The
actual size of the generated image is guaranteed to be less than or equal to this
estimate.
.It Fl plistin
Instead of using command-line parameters, use a standard plist from standard
input to specific the parameters of the hybrid image generation.  Each
command-line option should be a key in the dictionary, without the leading
.Qo - Qc Ns ,
and the value should be a string for path and string arguments, a number
for number arguments, and a boolean for toggle options.  The
.Ar source
argument should use a key of
.Qo source Qc
and the
.Ar image
should use a key of
.Qo output Qc Ns .
.El
.Pp
If a disk image was specified for
.Ar "source",
the image will be attached and paths will be evaluated relative to the
mountpoint of the image.  No absolute paths can be used in this case.  If
.Ar source
is a directory, all argument paths should point to files or directories
either via an absolute path, or via a relative path to the current working
directory.
.Pp
The volume name options, just like files in the filesystems, may need to be
mapped onto the legal character set for a given filesystem or otherwise changed
to obey naming restrictions.  Use
.Xr drutil 1
as
.Nm drutil
.Sy filename
.Ar myname
to see how a given string would be remapped.
.Pp
The
.Fl abstract-file ,
.Fl bibliography-file , and
.Fl copyright-file
must exist directly in the source directory, not a sub-directory,
and must have an 8.3 name for compatibility with ISO9660 Level 1.
.\"
.\"             -- compact --
.It Sy compact Ar image Op Ar options
.br
scans the bands of a sparse (SPARSE or SPARSEBUNDLE) disk image containing
an APFS or HFS+ filesystem, removing those parts of the image which are no
longer being used by the filesystem.  Depending on the location of files in
the hosted filesystem,
.Sy compact
may or may not shrink the image.  For SPARSEBUNDLE images, completely
unused band files are simply removed.
.Pp
Options:
.Bl -hang -width "batteryallowed" -compact
.It Fl batteryallowed
allow compacting on battery power.  SPARSE images could be damaged if power is
lost during a compact operation.  The default is not allowed.
.Pp
.It Fl sleepallowed
allow machine to idle sleep while compacting, which cancels the compact
operation.  The default is not allowed, which prevents idle sleep until compact
completes.  User-initiated sleep, such as a lid close, will always cancel compact.
.El
.Pp
Common options:
.Fl "encryption",
.Fl "stdinpass",
.Fl "srcimagekey",
.Fl shadow
and related,
.Fl puppetstrings ,
and
.Fl "plist".
.\"
.\"             -- info --
.It Sy info
display information about DiskImages.framework, the disk image driver, and
any images that are currently attached.
.Nm
.Sy info
accepts
.Fl "plist".
.\"             -- checksum --
.It Sy checksum Ar image
.Fl type Ar type
.br
Calculate the specified checksum on the image data, regardless of image
type.
.Pp
Common options:
.Fl "shadow"
and related,
.Fl "encryption",
.Fl "stdinpass",
.Fl "srcimagekey",
.Fl puppetstrings ,
and
.Fl "plist".
.Pp
.Ar type
is one of:
.br
.Bl -item -offset indent -compact
.It
UDIF-CRC32 - CRC-32 image checksum
.br
UDIF-MD5 - MD5 image checksum
.br
DC42 - Disk Copy 4.2
.br
CRC28 - CRC-32 (NDIF)
.br
CRC32 - CRC-32
.br
MD5 - MD5
.br
SHA - SHA
.br
SHA1 - SHA-1
.br
SHA256 - SHA-256
.br
SHA384 - SHA-384
.br
SHA512 - SHA-512
.El
.\"
.\"             -- chpass --
.It Sy chpass Ar image
.br
change the passphrase for an encrypted image.  The default is to change
the password interactively.
.Pp
Common options:
.Fl "recover"
and
.Fl "srcimagekey" Ns .
The options
.Fl oldstdinpass
and
.Fl newstdinpass
allow, in the order specified, the null-terminated old and new passwords
to be read from the standard input in the same manner as with
.Fl stdinpass Ns .
.\"
.\"             -- erasekeys --
.It Sy erasekeys Ar image
.br
delete keys used to access an encrypted image, quickly rendering the image
inaccessible.  This does not prevent other copies of the keys from later
being broken and used to decrypt the data, such as from a copy or backup
of the image.  In addition, modern storage systems such as solid state
disks do not securely overwrite data.  As a result,
.Sy erasekeys
cannot protect against all attacks, but it may prevent trivial access.
.Pp
Common options:
.Fl "plist"
and
.Fl "quiet".
.\"
.\"             -- unflatten --
.It Sy unflatten Ar image
.br
unflatten a UDIF disk image, creating an OS 9-style dual-fork image file
(no XML metadata).  If the resource fork representation of the metadata
becomes greater than 16 MB, the operation will fail with error -39 ("End
of fork").
.Pp
Common options:
.Fl "encryption",
.Fl "stdinpass",
and
.Fl "srcimagekey".
.\"
.\"             -- flatten --
.It Sy flatten Ar image
.br
Flatten a read-only (or compressed) UDIF disk image into a single-fork
file.  By default, metadata will be stored both as XML (for the kernel's
use) and in an embedded resource fork (for Mac OS X 10.1 and earlier).
.Pp
Common options:
.Fl "srcimagekey",
.Fl "encryption",
and
.Fl "stdinpass".
Since images are created
.Qq flat
by default,
.Sy flatten
is only required if the UDIF has previously been
.Ns Sy unflatten Ns ed.
.Bl -hang -width "norsrcfork" -compact
.Pp
Other options:
.It Fl noxml
don't embed XML data for in-kernel attachment.  The image will never
attach in-kernel.
.It Fl norsrcfork
don't embed resource fork data.  The image will not attach on OS X versions
prior to Mac OS X 10.2.
.El
.\"
.\"             -- fsid --
.It Sy fsid Ar image
.br
Print information about filesystems on a given disk image.
Per DEVICE SPECIAL FILES,
.Ar image
can be a
.Pa /dev
entry corresponding to a disk.  More detailed information is presented
for HFS+ filesystems.
.Pp
Common options:
.Fl "encryption",
.Fl "stdinpass",
.Fl "srcimagekey",
and
.Fl "shadow"
and related.
.Pp
.\"
.\"             -- mountvol --
.\"
.It Sy mountvol Ar dev_name
.br
mount the filesystem in
.Ar dev_name
using Disk Arbitration (similar
to
.Xr diskutil 8 Ns 's
.Sy mount Ns ).
XML output is available from
.Fl "plist".
Note that
.Sy mountvol
(rather than
.Sy mount ,
though it often works in Mac OS X 10.5 and later)
is the correct way to remount a volume after it has been unmounted by
.Sy unmount .
.Pp
Prior to Mac OS X 10.5,
.Sy mount Ns / Ns Sy attach
would treat a /dev entry as a disk image to be attached (creating another
/dev entry).  That behavior was undesirable.
.\"             -- unmount --
.\"
.It Sy unmount Ar volume Op Fl force
.br
unmount a mounted volume without detaching any associated image.
.Ar Volume
is a /dev entry or mountpoint.  NOTE:
.Sy unmount
does NOT detach any disk image associated with the volume.
Images are attached and detached; volumes are mounted and unmounted.
.Nm
.Sy mountvol
(or
.Sy diskutil mount Ns )
will remount a volume that has been unmounted by
.Nm
.Sy unmount .
.Pp
Options:
.Bl -hang -width "force++" -compact
.It Fl force
unmount filesystem regardless of open files on that filesystem.  Similar
to umount -f.
.El
.\"             -- imageinfo --
.It Sy imageinfo Ar image Op Ar options
.br
Print out information about a disk image.
.Pp
Options are any of:
.Bl -hang -width "checksum" -compact
.It Fl format
only print out the image format
.It Fl checksum
only print out the image checksum
.El
.Pp
Common options:
.Fl "encryption",
.Fl "stdinpass",
.Fl "srcimagekey",
.Fl "shadow"
and related, and
.Fl "plist".
.\"
.\"             -- isencrypted --
.It Sy isencrypted Ar image
.br
print a line indicating whether
.Ar image
is encrypted.  If it is, additional details are printed.
.Pp
Common options:
.Fl plist .
.\"
.\"             -- plugins --
.It Sy plugins
print information about DiskImages framework plugins.  The user, system,
local, and network domains are searched for plugins (i.e.
.Pa ~/Library/Plug-ins/DiskImages Ns ,
.Pa /System/Library/Plug-ins/DiskImages Ns ,
.Pa /Library/Plug-ins/DiskImages Ns ,
.Pa /Network/Library/Plug-ins/DiskImages Ns ).
.Pp
Common options:
.Fl plist .
.Pp
.\"
.\"             -- internet-enable --
.It Sy internet-enable
.Op Fl yes
|
.Fl no
|
.Fl query
.Ar image
.br
.Sy internet-enable
is deprecated.  As of OS X 10.7, nothing in OS X processes images
configured for IDME.
.\"
.\"             -- resize --
.It Sy resize Ar size_spec image
.br
Resize a disk image or the containers within it.  For an image containing
a trailing Apple_HFS partition, the default is to resize the image
container, the partition, and the filesystem within it by aligning the
end of the hosted structures with the end of the image.
.Nm
.Sy resize
cannot resize filesystems other than HFS+ and its variants.
.Pp
.Sy resize
can shrink an image so that its HFS+ partition can be converted to
CD-R/DVD-R format and still be burned.
.Nm
.Sy resize
will not reclaim gaps because it does not move data.
.Xr diskutil 8 Ns 's
.Sy resize
can move filesystem data which can help
.Nm
.Sy resize
create a minimally-sized image.
.Fl fsargs
can also be used to minimize filesystem gaps inside an image.
.Pp
.Sy resize
is limited by the disk image container format (e.g. UDSP vs. UDSB), any
partition scheme, the hosted filesystem, and the filesystem hosting the
image.  In the case of HFS+ inside of GPT inside of a UDRW on HFS+ with
adequate free space, the limit is approximately 2^63 bytes.  Older images
created with an APM partition scheme are limited by it to 2TB.  Before
Mac OS X 10.4,
.Sy resize
was limited by how the filesystem was created (see
.Nm
.Sy create
.Fl stretch Ns ).
.Pp
.Nm
.Sy burn
does not burn Apple_Free partitions at the end of the devices, so an image
with a resized filesystem can be burned to create a CD-R/DVD-R master that
contains only the actual data in the hosted filesystem (assuming minimal
data fragmentation).
.Pp
Common options:
.Fl "encryption",
.Fl "stdinpass",
.Fl "srcimagekey",
.Fl "shadow"
and related, and
.Fl "plist".
.Pp
Size specifiers:
.Bl -hang -width "partitionNumber" -compact
.It Fl size Ar ??b|??k|??m|??g|??t|??p|??e
.It Fl sectors Ar sector_count | min
.br
Specify the number of 512-byte sectors to which the partition should be
resized.  If this falls outside the mininum valid value or space remaining
on the underlying file system, an error will be
returned and the partition will not be resized.
.Ar min
automatically determines the smallest possible size.
.El
.Pp
Other options:
.Bl -hang -width "partitionNumber" -compact
.It Fl imageonly
only resize the image file, not the partition(s) and filesystems inside
of it.
.It Fl partitiononly
only resize a partition / filesystem in the image, not the image.
.Fl partitiononly
will fail if the new size won't fit inside the image.  On APM, shrinking
a partition results in an explicit Apple_Free entry taking up the
remaining space in the image.
.It Fl partitionNumber Ar partitionNumber
.br
specifies which partition to resize (UDIF only -- see HISTORY below).
.Ar partitionNumber
is 0-based, but, per
.Nm
.Sy pmap Ns ,
partition 0 is the partition map itself.
.Pp
.It Fl growonly
only allow the image to grow
.It Fl shrinkonly
only allow the image to shrink
.It Fl nofinalgap
allow resize to entirely eliminate the trailing free partition in an APM
map.  Restoring such images to very old hardware may interfere with booting.
.Pp
.It Fl limits
Displays the minimum, current, and maximum sizes (in 512-byte sectors)
for the image.  In addition to any hosted filesystem constraints, UDRW
images are constrained by available disk space in the filesystem hosting
the image.
.Fl limits
does not modify the image.
.El
.\"
.\"             -- segment --
.It Sy segment
.br
.Sy segment Fl o Ar firstSegname Fl segmentCount Ar #segs image Op opts
.br
.Sy segment Fl o Ar firstSegname Fl segmentSize Ar size image Op opts
.br
segment an NDIF or UDIF disk image.  Segmented images work around
limitations in file size which are sometimes imposed by filesystems,
network protocols, or media.  Note: whether or not the segments are
encrypted is determined by the options passed to
.Sy segment
and not by the state of the source image.
.Pp
Common options:
.Fl "encryption",
.Fl "stdinpass",
.Fl "srcimagekey",
.Fl "tgtimagekey",
.Fl puppetstrings ,
and
.Fl "plist".
.Pp
Options:
.Bl -hang -width "segmentCount" -compact
.It Fl segmentCount Ar segment_count
.br
Specify the number of segments.  Only one of
.Fl segmentCount
or
.Fl segmentSize
will be honored.
.It Fl segmentSize Ar segment_size
.br
Specify the segment size in sectors or in the style of
.Xr mkfile 8
(here unqualified numbers are still sectors).  If the original image size
is not an exact multiple of the segment size, the last segment will be
shorter than the others.  Only one of
.Fl segmentCount
or
.Fl segmentSize
will be honored.  Segmenting read/write (UDRW) images is not supported (as
of Mac OS X 10.3).
.Pp
.It Fl firstSegmentSize Ar segment_size
.br
Specify the first segment size in sectors in the same form as for
.Fl "segmentSize".
Used for multi-CD restores.
.It Fl restricted
Make restricted segments for use in multi-CD restores.
.It Fl ov
overwrite any existing files.
.El
.\"
.\"             -- pmap --
.It Sy pmap Op options
.Ar image
.br
display the partition map of an image or device.  By default, this report
includes starting offsets and significant amounts of free space.
.Ar image
is either a disk image or /dev/disk entry (see DEVICE SPECIAL FILES).
.Pp
Common options:
.Fl "encryption",
.Fl "stdinpass",
.Fl "srcimagekey",
and
.Fl "shadow"
and related.
.Pp
.Bl -hang -width "-nofreespace" -compact
.It Fl simple
generate MediaKit's minimal report: basic partition types, names, and sizes in
human-readable units.
.It Fl standard
generate MediaKit's standard report, which adds partition offsets and
uses 512-byte sectors.  This is the default.
.It Fl complete
generate MediaKit's comprehensive report, with end offsets,
significant free space, etc.
.It Fl diagnostic
generate MediaKit's diagnostic report, which shows all partition schemes
encountered.  Useful for Boot Camp troubleshooting.
.Pp
.It Fl endoffsets
indicate last block of each partition.
.It Fl nofreespace
suppress all free space reporting.  Not valid with
.Ns Fl shims .
.It Fl shims
report free space < 32 sectors.
.It Fl uuids
show per-instance UUIDs for each partition.  APM does not store instance
UUIDs so these will be randomly generated for APM maps.
.El
.\"
.\"             -- udifrez --
.It Sy udifrez Op options
.Ar image
.br
embed resources (e.g. a software license agreement) in a disk image.
.Pp
You must specify one of the following options:
.Bl -hang -width "xml" -compact
.It Fl xml Ar file
.br
Copy resources from the XML in
.Ar file .
.It Fl rsrcfork Ar file
.br
Copy resources from
.Ar file Ns 's
resource fork.
.It Fl replaceall
.br
Delete all pre-existing resources in
.Ar image .
.El
.\"
.\"             -- udifderez --
.It Sy udifderez Op options
.Ar image
.br
extract resources from
.Ar image .
.Pp
Options:
.Bl -hang -width "xmlxml" -compact
.It Fl xml
emit XML output (default)
.It Fl rez
emit Rez format output
.El
.Pp
Common options:
.Fl "encryption",
.Fl "stdinpass",
and
.Fl "srcimagekey".
.\"
.\" end verb list
.El
.\"
.Sh EXAMPLES
Verifying:
.Dl hdiutil verify myimage.img
.Bd -ragged -offset indent-two -compact
verifies an image against its internal checksum.
.Ed
.Pp
Segmenting:
.Dl hdiutil segment -segmentSize 10m -o /tmp/aseg 30m.dmg
.Bd -ragged -offset indent-two -compact
creates aseg.dmg, aseg.002.dmgpart, and aseg.003.dmgpart
.Ed
.Pp
Converting:
.Dl hdiutil convert master.dmg -format UDTO -o master
.Bd -ragged -offset indent-two -compact
converts master.dmg to a CD-R export image named master.cdr
.Ed
.Dl hdiutil convert /dev/disk1 -format UDRW -o devimage
.Bd -ragged -offset indent-two -compact
converts the disk /dev/disk1 to a read/write device image file.
authopen(1) will be used if read access to /dev/rdisk1 is not
available.  Note use of the block-special device.
.Ed
.Dl hdiutil convert image.dmg -o image.sparsebundle
.Bd -ragged -offset indent-two -compact
converts image.dmg to format UDSB by automatically detecting
the file extension .sparsebundle.
.Ed
.Bd -literal -offset indent -compact
hdiutil convert files.sparsebundle -format UDZO \\
    -imagekey zlib-level=5 -o files
.Ed
.Bd -ragged -offset indent-two -compact
converts files.sparsebundle to files.dmg: a read-only,
compressed disk image using zlib level 5 instead of the
default.
.Ed
.Dl hdiutil convert stuff.dmg -format UDZO -encryption -o stuff-enc
.Bd -ragged -offset indent-two -compact
create a copy of stuff.dmg named stuff-enc.dmg which is
encrypted with AES-128.
.Ed
.Pp
Burning:
.Dl hdiutil burn myImage.dmg
.Bd -ragged -offset indent-two -compact
burns the image to optical media and verifies the burn.
.Ed
.Dl hdiutil burn myRawImage.cdr -noverifyburn -noeject
.Bd -ragged -offset indent-two -compact
burns the image without verifying the burn or ejecting
the disc.  Volumes will be mounted after burning.
.Ed
.Pp
Creating a 50 MB read/write encrypted image:
.Dl hdiutil create -encryption -size 50m e.dmg -fs HFS+J
.Pp
Creating a 50 MB read/write encrypted image protected with public key only:
.Bd -literal -offset indent -compact
hdiutil create -encryption -size 50m e.dmg -fs HFS+J \\
    -pubkey F534A3B0C2AEE3B988308CC89AA04ABE7FDB5F30
.Ed
.Pp
Creating a 50 MB read/write encrypted image protected with public key and password:
.Bd -literal -offset indent -compact
hdiutil create -encryption -size 50m e.dmg -fs HFS+J -agentpass \\
    -pubkey F534A3B0C2AEE3B988308CC89AA04ABE7FDB5F30
.Ed
.Pp
Note that these two -pubkey usage examples assume a certificate
corresponding to this public key is currently in the user's keychain or smart
card.
For additional information on smart card authorization setup see
.Xr sc_auth 8 .
.Pp
Creating an encrypted single-partition image without user interaction:
.Dl printf pp|hdiutil create -encryption -stdinpass -size 9m sp.dmg
.Pp
Creating a "1 GB" SPARSE image (a 1 GB filesystem in a growable file):
.Dl hdiutil create -type SPARSE -size 1g -fs HFS+J growableTo1g
.Pp
Creating a "1 GB" SPARSEBUNDLE (a 1 GB filesystem in a growable bundle):
.Dl hdiutil create -type SPARSEBUNDLE -size 1g -fs HFS+J growableTo1g
.Pp
Creating a new mounted volume backed by an image:
.Dl hdiutil create -volname Dick -size 1.3m -fs HFS+ -attach Moby.dmg
.Pp
Attaching an image on a web server to the system, with any writes going
to a local file:
.Bd -literal -offset indent -compact
hdiutil attach https://my.webserver.com/master.dmg \\
    -shadow /tmp/mastershadowfile
.Ed
.Pp
Using a shadow file to attach a read-only image read/write to modify it,
then convert it back to a read-only image. This method eliminates the
time/space required to convert a image to read/write before modifying it.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
hdiutil attach -owners on Moby.dmg -shadow
/dev/disk2   Apple_partition_scheme
/dev/disk2s1 Apple_partition_map
/dev/disk2s2 Apple_HFS               /Volumes/Dick

ditto /Applications/Preview.app /Volumes/Dick
hdiutil detach /dev/disk2
hdiutil convert -format UDZO Moby.dmg -shadow
.Ed
.Pp
Creating a RAM-backed device and filesystem:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
NUMSECTORS=128000       # a sector is 512 bytes
mydev=`hdiutil attach -nomount ram://$NUMSECTORS`
newfs_hfs $mydev
mkdir /tmp/mymount
mount -t hfs $mydev /tmp/mymount
.Ed
.Pp
Using makehybrid to create cross-platform data with files overlapping
between filesystem views, containing these files:
.Bd -literal -offset indent -compact
albumlist.txt song2.wma     song4.m4a     song6.mp3     song8.mp3
song1.wma     song3.m4a     song5.mp3     song7.mp3
.Ed
.Pp
.Bd -literal -offset indent -compact
hdiutil makehybrid -o MusicBackup.iso Music -hfs -iso -joliet \\
    -hide-hfs 'Music/*.wma' -hide-joliet 'Music/{*.m4a,*.mp3}' \\
    -hide-iso 'Music/*.{wma,m4a}'
.Ed
.Pp
will create an image with three filesystems pointing to the same blocks.
The HFS+ filesystem, typically only visible on Macintosh systems, will
not include the .wma files, but will show the .m4a and .mp3 files. The
Joliet filesystem will not show the .m4a and .mp3 files, but will show
the .wma files. The ISO9660 filesystem, typically the default filesystem
for optical media on many platforms, will only show the .mp3 files. All
three filesystems will include the "albumlist.txt" files.
.Pp
Image from directory:
.Dl hdiutil create -srcfolder mydir mydir.dmg
.Bd -ragged -offset indent-two -compact
This method uses the least disk space during image creation, but the
resulting image may be slightly less space efficient.
.Ed
.Pp
Image from directory using an intermediate sparse bundle:
.Dl hdiutil create -srcfolder mydir -format UDSB mydir.sparsebundle
.Dl hdiutil convert mydir.sparsebundle -format UDZO -o mydir.dmg
.Bd -ragged -offset indent-two -compact
This method produces space-optimal images, but requires much more disk
space during image creation. The intermediate sparse bundle image can
be removed after the process is complete.
.Ed
.Pp
Manually changing ownership settings of a read-only disk image:
.Bd -literal -offset indent -compact
hdiutil attach myimage.dmg
\&\...
/dev/disk1s2            Apple_HFS         /Volumes/myVolume
diskutil unmount disk1s2
mkdir /Volumes/myVolume
sudo mount -r -t hfs -o owners /dev/disk1s2 /Volumes/myVolume
# -o owners is the default for manual mounts
.Ed
.Pp
Forcing a known image to attach:
.Dl hdiutil attach -imagekey diskimage-class=CRawDiskImage myBlob.bar
.\"
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variables affect
.Nm
and DiskImages:
.Bl -tag -width com_apple
.It Ev com_apple_hdid_verbose
enable
.Fl verbose
behavior for
.Sy attach .
.It Ev com_apple_hdid_debug
enable
.Fl debug
behavior for
.Sy attach .
.It Ev com_apple_hdid_nokernel
similar to
.Fl nokernel
but works even with, for example,
.Sy create Fl attach .
.It Ev com_apple_hdid_kernel
Make
.Sy attach
behave as if
.Fl kernel
was passed.  In Mac OS X 10.4.x, in-kernel was the default behavior for UDRW
and SPARSE images.  In Mac OS X 10.5 and later, these and other
kernel-compatible images again default to attaching with a user process.
If an image is not "kernel-compatible" and in-kernel mounting is specified,
the attach will fail.  WARNING: ram:// images use wired memory when
attached in-kernel.
.It Ev com_apple_diskimages_insecureHTTP
disable SSL peer verification the same way
.Fl insecurehttp
does.  Useful for clients of DiskImages such as
.Xr asr 8
which don't support a similar command line option.
.El
.\"
.Sh ERRORS
.\" hdiutil test 7 <errnum> will decode an error number.
.\" an 'errnum' verb might be useful for debugging
DiskImages uses many frameworks and can encounter many error codes.  In
general, it tries to turn these error numbers into localized strings for
the user.  For background,
.Xr intro 2
is a good explanation of our primary error domain: the BSD errno values.
For debugging,
.Fl verbose
should generally provide enough information to figure out what has gone
wrong.  The following is a list of interesting errors that hdiutil may
encounter:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It "No mountable filesystems"
The "No mountable filesystems" error from
.Nm
.Sy attach
means that no filesystems could be recognized or mounted after the disk
image was attached.  The default behavior in this case is to detach the
disk image.  See
.Sy attach
for options modifying this behavior.  This error can occur if the disk
image or contained filesystem is corrupt.  It can also occur if an image
was created from a block device containing a mounted, journaled filesystem
(in which case the image contains a dirty journal that can't be replayed
without making the image read/write, such as with
.Sy attach
.Fl shadow Ns ).
.It Bq Er ENXIO
Device not configured.  This error is returned explicitly by DiskImages
when its kernel driver or framework helper cannot be contacted.  It also
often shows up when a device has been removed while I/O is still active.
One common case of the helper not being found is when Foundation's
Distributed Objects RPC mechanism cannot be configured.  D.O. doesn't
work under dead Mach bootstrap contexts such as can exist in a reattached
.Xr screen 1
session.  Root users can take advantage of
.Xr StartupItemContext 8
(in
.Pa /usr/libexec )
to access the startup item Mach bootstrap context.
.\" 3941240 tracks better bootstraps :)
.It Bq Er EINVAL
Invalid argument.  This error is used in many contexts and is often a
clue that
.Nm hdiutil Ns 's
arguments are subtly non-sensical (e.g. an invalid layout name passed to
.Sy create
.Fl layout Ns ).
.It Bq Er EFBIG
File too large.  DiskImages reports this error when attempting to access
a disk image over HTTP that is too large for the server to support access
via Range requests.  Segmented images can sometimes be used to work around
this limitation of older HTTP servers.  This error can also occur if an
overflow occurs with an old-style UDIF resource fork.
.It Bq Er EAUTH
Authentication error.  Used by DiskImages when
.Xr libcurl 3
is unable to verify its SSL peer or when Security.framework indicates
that the user failed to enter the correct password.  See
.Fl insecurehttp
and
.Fl cacert
for more information about verification of SSL peers.
.It Bq Er EBUSY
Resource busy.  Used if necessary exclusive access cannot be obtained.
This error often appears when a volume can't be unmounted.
.Xr lsof 8
may help determine which open files could be causing the error.
.It Bq Er EAGAIN
Resource temporarily unavailable.  As of Mac OS X 10.5, DiskImages uses
read/write locks on its image files to prevent images from being attached
on more than one machine at a time (e.g. over the network).
.Er EAGAIN
is returned if the appropriate read or write lock can't be obtained.
.It Er EACCES vs. Er EPERM
EACCES and EPERM are subtly different.  The latter "operation not
permitted" tends to refer to an operation that cannot be performed, often
due to an incorrect effective user ID.  On the other hand, "permission
denied" tends to mean that a particular file access mode prevented the
operation.
.El
.\"
.Sh USING PERSISTENT SPARSE IMAGES
As of Mac OS X 10.5, a more reliable, efficient, and scalable sparse
format, UDSB (SPARSEBUNDLE), is recommended for persistent sparse images
as long as a backing bundle (directory) is acceptable.  Mac OS X 10.5 also
introduced F_FULLFSYNC over AFP (on client and server), allowing proper
journal flushes for HFS+J-bearing images.  Critical data should never be
stored in sparse disk images on file servers that don't support
F_FULLFSYNC.
.Pp
SPARSE (UDSP) images and shadow files were designed for intermediate use
when creating other images (e.g. UDZO) when final image sizes are unknown.
Generally speaking, SPARSE images are not recommended for persistent storage,
though they are relatively safe on Mac OS X 10.3.2 and later. On versions
earlier than 10.3.2, SPARSE should be avoided in favor of UDRW images and
.Sy resize .
On Mac OS X 10.5 and later, the more robust and faster SPARSEBUNDLE type
is preferred.
.Pp
Note that both sparse formats, UDSP and UDSB, are growable only up to a limit:
the size parameter specified when they were created. They will take up less space
on the hosting filesystem if they contain less data than their created size,
and grow up to that size as data is added.
.Pp
If more space is needed than is referenced by the hosted filesystem,
.Nm
.Sy resize
or
.Xr diskutil 8
.Sy resize
can help to grow or shrink the filesystem in an image.
.Sy compact
reclaims unused space in sparse images.  Though they request that hosted
HFS+ filesystems use a special "front first" allocation policy, beware
that sparse images can enhance the effects of any fragmentation in the
hosted filesystem.
.Pp
To prevent errors when a filesystem inside of a sparse image has more free
space than the volume holding the sparse image, HFS+ volumes inside sparse
images will report an amount of free space slightly less than the amount
of free space on the volume on which image resides.  The image filesystem
currently only behaves this way as a result of a direct
.Sy attach
action and will not behave this way if, for example, the filesystem is
unmounted and remounted.  Moving the image file to a different volume
with sufficient free space will allow the image's filesystem to grow to
its full size.
.\"
.Sh DEVICE SPECIAL FILES
Since any
.Pa /dev
entry can be treated as a raw disk image, it is worth noting which devices
can be accessed when and how.
.Pa /dev/rdisk
nodes are character-special devices, but are "raw" in the BSD sense and
force block-aligned I/O.  They are closer to the physical disk than the
buffer cache.
.Pa /dev/disk
nodes, on the other hand, are buffered block-special devices and are used
primarily by the kernel's filesystem code.
.Pp
It is not possible to read from a
.Pa /dev/disk
node while a filesystem is mounted from it, but anyone with read access
to the appropriate
.Pa /dev/rdisk
node can use
.Nm hdiutil
verbs such as
.Sy fsid
or
.Sy pmap
with it.  Beware that information read from a raw device while a
filesystem is mounted may not be consistent because the consistent
data is stored in memory or in the filesystem's journal.
.Pp
The DiskImages framework will attempt to use
.Xr authopen 1
to open any device which it can't open (due to EACCES) for reading with
.Xr open 2 Ns .
Depending on session characteristics, this behavior can cause
apparent hangs while trying to access
.Pa /dev
entries while logged in remotely (an authorization panel is waiting on
console).
.Pp
Generally, the
.Pa /dev/disk
node is preferred for imaging devices (e.g.
.Sy convert
or
.Sy create Fl srcdevice
operations), while
.Pa /dev/rdisk
is usable for the quick
.Sy pmap
or
.Ns Sy fsid .
In particular, converting the blocks of a mounted journaled filesystem
to a read-only image will prevent the volume in the image from
mounting (the journal will be permanently dirty).
.\"
.Sh PERMISSIONS VS. OWNERS
Some filesystems support permissions including users and groups.  While
important for security on a managed filesystem, users and groups ("owners")
pose challenges for unmanaged, shared filesystems such as those typically
present in disk images.  macOS's solution to this problem is to make owners
optional, both while creating files and enforcing permissions.
.Pp
By default, unknown HFS+ filesystems on "external" devices (including
disk images) mount with their owners ignored (mount -o noowners).  Normally
when owners are ignored, the system uses a special _unknown user and group
to dynamically substitute the current user's identity for any owners
recorded in the filesystem.  These _unknown owners are even written to
the volume when creating new files.  The new files will continue to have
"floating" ownership when mounted with owners honored.  The net result
is that shared volumes behave as expected regardless of how they are
accessed.
.Pp
The behavior is different when disk images are attached.  With disk images,
the owner of all files in a filesystem mount for which owners are ignored
is the user attaching the disk image.  The attaching owner is also used
when creating new files.
.Pp
On modern macOS systems, root (UID 0) can "see through" the "owners ignored"
user mappings.  Thus
.Dl sudo ls -l /Volumes/imageVol
will show whatever is really stored in the filesystem (possibly _unknown)
regardless of whether owners are currently being honored on that volume.
In contrast, non-root users will see themselves any time _unknown is in
effect, whether the default for the mount when owners are ignored or
because _unknown is stored on disk.  For disk images, non-root users will
see owners matching the user that attached the disk image.
.Pp
Unlike owners, permissions are never optional.  A non-writable file will
not be writable just because owners are ignored.  However, a file that
is writable by its owner will be writable by everyone if _unknown is the
effective owner of the file for that file.  Because anyone accessing an
owners-ignored file is treated as the owner, everyone is effectively the
owner.  Because the default behavior for disk image filesystems is for
all files to be owned by the user attaching the disk image, other users
will be treated per the 'group' (if applicable) and 'other' permission
modes.
.Pp
.Xr diskutil 8 Ns 's
.Sy enableOwnership
or the Finder's Get Info window can be used to configure a system
to respect the on-disk owners for a filesystem in the future.
.\"
.Sh COMPATIBILITY
The DiskImages framework supports a variety of flat-file and dual-fork
image formats, including read/write, read-only, and read-only compressed
(which are decompressed in small chunks as I/O requests are made).  It
automatically decodes AppleSingle and MacBinary file formats and is capable
of mounting most images directly from http:// URLs.  Because DiskImages
can make many requests over a single connection, responsiveness can be
improved by modifying HTTP server settings such as apache's
MaxKeepAliveRequests and KeepAliveTimeout.
.Pp
Mac OS X 10.0 supported the disk images of Disk Copy 6 on Mac OS 9.  OS X
10.1 added sparse, encrypted, and zlib-compressed images.  These images
will not be recognized on Mac OS X 10.0 (or will attach read/write, possibly
allowing for their destruction).  As the sparse, shadow, and encrypted
formats have evolved, switches have been added to facilitate the creation
of images that are compatible with older OS versions (at the expense of
the performance and reliability improvements offered by the format
enhancements).  In particular, sparse images should not be expected to
attach on versions of OS X older than that which created them.
.Pp
With Mac OS X 10.2, the most common image formats went "in-kernel" (i.e. the
DiskImages kernel extension served them without a helper process), image
meta-data began being stored both as XML and in the embedded resource fork,
and the default Disk Copy.app "compressed" format became UDZO (breaking
compatibility with 10.0).  Mac OS X 10.4 introduced bzip2 compression in the
UDBZ format which provides smaller images (especially when combined with
.Sy makehybrid )
at the expense of backwards compatibility, some performance, and kernel
compatibility.
.Pp
In Mac OS X 10.4.7, the resource forks previously embedded in UDIF images
were abandoned entirely to avoid metadata length limitations imposed by
resource fork structures.
As a result, UDIF images created on 10.4.7 and later will not, by default,
be recognized by either Mac OS X 10.1 or Mac OS X 10.0.
.Sy flatten
can be used to customize the type of metadata stored in the image.
.Pp
Mac OS X
10.5 introduced sparse bundle images which
.Sy compact
quickly but are not recognized by previous OS versions.  Mac OS X 10.6
removed support for attaching SPARSEBUNDLE images from network file
servers that don't support F_FULLFSYNC, although this requirement was relaxed
in macOS 10.12.  OS X 10.7 removed double-click support for images using legacy
metadata; these can be rehabilitated using
.Sy flatten
and
.Sy unflatten Ns ,
or simply
.Sy convert Ns .
.Pp
OS X 10.11 introduced lzfse compression in the ULFO format, providing
faster, more efficient compression and smaller images compared to UDZO.
These images are also supported in-kernel, but will not work on any
earlier versions of the OS.
.Pp
macOS 10.12 included a pre-release version of the Apple File System
called APFS which was meant for evaluation and development purposes only.
Files stored in APFS-based images may not be accessible in future
releases of macOS, and won't work in past ones.  All data to be stored
in APFS volumes should be backed up prior to using APFS and regularly
backed up while using APFS.
.\"
.Sh HISTORY
Disk images were first invented to electronically store and transmit
representations of floppy disks for manufacturing replication.  These
images of floppies are typically referred to as 'Disk Copy 4.2' images,
in reference to the application that created and restored them to floppy
disks.  Disk Copy 4.2 images were block-for-block representations of a
floppy disk, with no notion of compression.  DART is a variant of the
Disk Copy 4.2 format that supported compression.
.Pp
NDIF (New Disk Image Format) images were developed to replace the Disk
Copy 4.2 and DART image formats and to support images larger than a floppy
disk.  With NDIF and Disk Copy version 6, images could be "attached" as
mass storage devices under Mac OS 9.  Apple Data Compression (ADC) --
which carefully optimizes for fast decompression -- was used to compress
images that were typically created once and restored many times during
manufacturing.
.Pp
UDIF (Universal Disk Image Format) device images picked up where NDIF
left off, allowing images to represent entire block devices and all the
data therein: DDM, partition map, disk-based drivers, etc.  For example,
it can represent bootable CDs which can then be replicated from an image.
To ensure single-fork files (NDIF was dual-fork), it began embedding its
resource fork in the data fork.  UDIF is the native image format for OS
X.
.Pp
Raw disk images from other operating systems (e.g. .iso files) will be
recognized as disk images and can be attached and mounted if macOS
recognizes the filesystems.  They can also be burned with
.Nm
.Ns Sy burn .
.\"
.Sh WHAT'S NEW
macOS 10.12 introduced the pre-release APFS for evaluation (see COMPATIBILITY
above).  10.12 also added an option to disable atomic copying during image from
folder operations, 
.Fl noatomic Ns ,
which may result in slightly faster image creation.
.Sy pmap
added a new switch,
.Fl diagnostic Ns ,
which captures troubleshooting information for Boot Camp configurations.
.Pp
OS X 10.11 added ULFO format images compressed with lzfse.  These images are
more efficient and smaller than comparable UDZO images compressed with zlib,
and retain kernel compatibility, but are not usable on earlier OSes.
.Pp
OS X 10.10 quadrupled the default UDIF chunk size without affecting backward
compatibility.  UDIF images created or converted on 10.10 will benefit from
smaller metadata and more efficient compression for UDZO and especially UDBZ
formats.
.Pp
OS X 10.7 added the ability to quickly render encrypted images
inaccessible using the new
.Sy erasekeys
verb, which saves time versus securely overwriting the entire image.
.Pp
In Mac OS X 10.6,
.Sy pmap
was rewritten to use MediaKit's latest reporting routines so that it can
properly support GPT partition maps.  Also
.Fl debug
now implies
.Fl verbose
for all verbs.
.Pp
Mac OS X 10.5 changed the behavior of
.Sy attach
when run on an existing image or /dev node: if the image was attached but
no volume was mounted, the volume would be mounted.  Prior systems would
return the /dev without mounting the volume.  This change effectively
removes the ability to create a second /dev node from an existing one.
.\"
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Ns Xr diskutil 8 ,
.Ns Xr asr 8 ,
.Ns Xr ioreg 8 ,
.Ns Xr hfs.util 8 ,
.Ns Xr apfs.util 8 ,
.Ns Xr msdos.util 8 ,
.Ns Xr exfat.util 8 ,
.Ns Xr authopen 1 ,
.Ns Xr ditto 8 ,
.Ns Xr drutil 1 ,
.Ns Xr diskarbitrationd 8 .
