.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.Dd April 1, 2015       \" DATE 
.Dt languagesetup 1       \" Program name and manual section number 
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm languagesetup
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line. 
.\"Nm Other_name_for_same_program(),
.\"Nm Yet another name for the same program.
.\" Use .Nm macro to designate other names for the documented program.
.Nd Set the primary language for the system.
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Op Fl h                 \" [-abcd]
.Op Fl Localized | English 
.Op Fl langspec Ar language
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
The languagesetup command changes the default system language that is chosen in the Setup Assistant application. This affects the language shown at login window.
.Pp                      \" Inserts a space
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Begins a tagged list 
.It -h               \" Each item preceded by .It macro
Prints help
.It -Localized
Prints localized prompts in interactive mode (requires UTF8-capable terminal. This is the default mode.)
.It -English
Prints prompts in English. Languages appear as ISO-639 codes.
.It -langspec
Sets the language according to the ISO-639 code specified.
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Pp
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT      \" May not be needed
.\" .Bl -tag -width "ENV_VAR_1" -indent \" ENV_VAR_1 is width of the string ENV_VAR_1
.\" .It Ev ENV_VAR_1
.\" Description of ENV_VAR_1
.\" .It Ev ENV_VAR_2
.\" Description of ENV_VAR_2
.\" .El                      
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS       \" May not be needed
.\" .Bl -diag
.\" .It Diagnostic Tag
.\" Diagnostic informtion here.
.\" .It Diagnostic Tag
.\" Diagnostic informtion here.
.\" List links in ascending order by section, alphabetically within a section.
.\" Please do not reference files that do not exist without filing a bug report
.\" .Sh BUGS              \" Document known, unremedied bugs 
.\" .Sh HISTORY           \" Document history if command behaves in a unique manner 
