.Dd 1 October, 2014
.Dt launchctl 1
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME
.Nm launchctl
.Nd Interfaces with launchd
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ar subcommand Op Ar arguments ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm 
interfaces with
.Nm launchd
to manage and inspect daemons, agents and XPC services.
.Sh SUBCOMMANDS
.Nm launchctl
allows for detailed examination of
.Nm launchd
's data structures. The fundamental structures are domains, services, and
endpoints. A domain manages the execution policy for a collection of services.
A service may be thought of as a virtual process that is always available to be
spawned in response to demand. Each service has a collection of endpoints, and
sending a message to one of those endpoints will cause the service to launch on
demand. Domains advertise these endpoints in a shared namespace and may be
thought of as synonymous with Mach bootstrap subsets.
.Pp
Many subcommands in
.Nm launchctl
take a specifier which indicates the target domain or service for the
subcommand. This specifier may take one of the following forms:
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Xo Ar system/[service-name]
.Xc
Targets the system domain or a service within the system domain. The system
domain manages the root Mach bootstrap and is considered a privileged execution
context. Anyone may read or query the system domain, but root privileges are
required to make modifications.
.It Xo Ar user/<uid>/[service-name]
.Xc
Targets the user domain for the given UID or a service within that domain. A
user domain may exist independently of a logged-in user. User domains do not
exist on iOS.
.It Xo Ar login/<asid>/[service-name]
.Xc
Targets a user-login domain or service within that domain. A user-login domain
is created when the user logs in at the GUI and is identified by the audit
session identifier associated with that login. If a user domain has an
associated login domain, the
.Nm print
subcommand will display the ASID of that login domain. User-login domains do not
exist on iOS.
.It Xo Ar gui/<uid>/[service-name]
.Xc
Another form of the
.Nm login
specifier. Rather than specifying a user-login domain by its ASID, this
specifier targets the domain based on which user it is associated with and is
generally more convenient.
.Pp
.Em Note :
GUI domains and user domains share many resources. For the purposes of the Mach
bootstrap name lookups, they are "flat", so they share the same set of
registered names. But they still have discrete sets of services. So when
printing the user domain's contents, you may see many Mach bootstrap name
registrations from services that exist in the GUI domain for that user, but you
will not see the services themselves in that list.
.It Xo Ar session/<asid>/[service-name]
.Xc
Targets the session domain for the given audit session ID or a service within
that domain. For more information about audit sessions, see
.Xr auditon 2
and
.Xr libbsm 3
.It Xo Ar pid/<pid>/[service-name]
.Xc
Targets the domain for the given PID or a service within that domain. Each
process on the system will have a PID domain associated with it that consists of
the XPC services visible to that process which can be reached with
.Xr xpc_connection_create 3 .
.El
.Pp
For instance, when referring to a service with the identifier
.Nm com.apple.example
loaded into the GUI domain of a user with UID 501,
.Nm domain-target
is
.Nm gui/501/ ,
.Nm service-name
is
.Nm com.apple.example ,
and
.Nm service-target
is
.Nm gui/501/com.apple.example .
.Sh SUBCOMMANDS
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Xo Ar bootstrap | bootout Ar domain-target Op Ar service-path service-path2 ...
.Ar | service-target
.Xc
Bootstraps or removes domains and services. When service arguments are present,
bootstraps and correspondingly removes their definitions into the domain.
Services may be specified as a series of paths or a service identifier.
Paths may point to XPC service bundles,
.Xr launchd.plist 5 s,
or a directories containing a collection of either. If there were one or more
errors while bootstrapping or removing a collection of services, the problematic
paths will be printed with the errors that occurred.
.Pp
If no paths or service target are specified, these commands can either bootstrap
or remove a domain specified as a domain target. Some domains will implicitly
bootstrap pre-defined paths as part of their creation. 
.It Xo Ar enable | disable Ar service-target
.Xc
Enables or disables the service in the requested domain. Once a service is
disabled, it cannot be loaded in the specified domain until it is once again
enabled. This state persists across boots of the device. This subcommand may
only target services within the system domain or user and user-login domains.
.It Xo Ar uncache Ar service-name
.Xc
This subcommand instructs
.Nm launchd
to bypass its service cache for the named service and instead read the service's
configuration file directly from disk.
.Nm launchd
maintains an in-memory cache of XPC service configuration files to minimize the
disk I/O. This subcommand will remove a cached entry so that developers may more
rapidly iterate on a service's configuration. It should not ever be used as part
of production workflow.
.It Xo Ar kickstart Op Fl kp
.Ar service-target
.Xc
Instructs
.Nm launchd
to run the specified service immediately, regardless of its configured launch
conditions.
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Fl k
If the service is already running, kill the running instance before restarting
the service.
.It Fl p
Upon success, print the PID of the new process or the already-running process to
stdout.
.El
.It Xo Ar attach Op Fl ksx
.Ar service-target
.Xc
Attaches the system's debugger to the process currently backing the specified
service. By default, if the service is not running, this subcommand will block
until the service starts.
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Fl k
If the service is already running, kill the running instance.
.It Fl s
Force the service to start.
.It Fl x
Attach to
.Xr xpcproxy 3
before it execs and becomes the service process. This flag is generally not
useful for anyone but the
.Nm launchd
maintainer.
.El
.It Xo Ar debug
.Ar service-target
.Op Ar --program <program path>
.Op Ar --guard-malloc
.Op Ar --malloc-stack-logging
.Op Ar --debug-libraries
.Op Ar --introspection-libraries
.Op Ar --NSZombie
.Op Ar --32
.Op Ar --stdin
.Op Ar --stdout
.Op Ar --stderr
.Op Ar --environment
.Op Ar --
.Op Ar argv0 argv1 argv2 ...
.Xc
Configures the next invocation of a service for debugging. This subcommand
allows you to temporarily replace the main executable of the service with one at
a different path, enable
.Xr libgmalloc 3 ,
set environment variables, set the argument vector and more. This is a
convenient alternative to editing the
.Xr launchd.plist 5
for the service and then reloading it, as the additional debugging properties
are cleared once the service has run once with them.
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Ar --program <program-path>
Instructs
.Xr launchd 8
to use
.Ar program-path as the service's executable.
.It Ar --guard-malloc
Turns on
.Xr libgmalloc 3
for the service.
.It Ar --malloc-stack-logging
Turns on
.Xr malloc 3
stack logging for the service.
.It Ar --malloc-nano-allocator
Turns on the
.Xr malloc 3
nano allocator for the service.
.It Ar --debug-libraries
Sets the
.Ar DYLD_IMAGE_SUFFIX
for the service to "_debug", which prefers the debug variants of libraries if
they exist. See
.Xr dyld 1
for more information.
.It Ar --introspection-libraries
Adds
.Ar /usr/lib/system/introspection
to the
.Ar DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH
environment variable for the service. This causes the system to prefer the
introspection variants of libraries if they exist.
.It Ar --NSZombie
Enables NSZombie.
.It Ar --32
Runs the service in the appropriate 32-bit architecture. Only available on
64-bit platforms.
.It Ar --stdin [stdin-path]
Sets the service's standard input to be
.Ar stdin-path .
If no file is given,
uses the current terminal as the service's standard input. If
.Ar stdin-path
does not exist, it is created.
.It Ar --stdout [stdout-path]
Sets the service's standard input to be
.Ar stdout-path .
If no file is given,
uses the current terminal as the service's standard input. If
.Ar stdout-path
does not exist, it is created.
.It Ar --stderr [stderr-path]
Sets the service's standard input to be
.Ar stderr-path .
If no file is given,
uses the current terminal as the service's standard input. If
.Ar stderr-path
does not exist, it is created.
.It Ar --environment VARIABLE0=value VARIABLE1=value ...
Sets the given environment variables on the service.
.It Ar -- argv0 argv1 ...
Any arguments following the
.Ar --
are given to the service as its argument vector.
.Pp
.Em IMPORTANT :
These arguments replace the service's default argument vector; they are not
merged in any way. The first argument following
.Ar --
is given as the initial (zeroth) element of the service's argument vector. As
with the
.Ar ProgramArguments
.Xr launchd.plist 5
key, you should read carefully and understand the
.Xr execve 2
man page.
.El
.It Xo Ar kill Ar signal-name | signal-number Ar service-target
.Xc
Sends the specified signal to the specified service if it is running. The signal
number or name (SIGTERM, SIGKILL, etc.) may be specified.
.It Xo Ar blame Ar service-target
.Xc
If the service is running, prints a human-readable string describing why
.Nm launchd
launched the service. Note that services may run for many reasons; this
subcommand will only show the most proximate reason. So if a service was run due
to a timer firing, this subcommand will print that reason, irrespective of
whether there were messages waiting on the service's various endpoints. This
subcommand is only intended for debugging and profiling use and its output
should not be relied upon in production scenarios.
.It Xo Ar print Ar domain-target | service-target
.Xc
Prints information about the specified service or domain. Domain output includes
various properties about the domain as well as a list of services and endpoints
in the domain with state pertaining to each. Service output includes various
properties of the service, including information about its origin on-disk, its
current state, execution context, and last exit status.
.Pp
.Em IMPORTANT :
This output is
.Em NOT
API in any sense at all. Do
.Em NOT
rely on the structure or information emitted for
.Em ANY
reason. It may change from release to release without warning.
.It Xo Ar print-cache
.Xc
Prints the contents of the
.Nm launchd
service cache.
.It Xo Ar print-disabled domain-target
.Xc
Prints the list of disabled services in the specified domain.
.It Xo Ar plist
.Op Ar segment,section
.Ar Mach-O
.Xc
Prints the the property list embedded in the __TEXT,__info_plist segment/section
of the target Mach-O or the specified segment/section.
.It Xo Ar procinfo Ar pid
.Xc
Prints information about the execution context of the specified PID. This
information includes Mach task-special ports and exception ports (and when run
against a DEVELOPMENT launchd, what names the ports are advertised as in the
Mach bootstrap namespace, if they are known to
.Nm launchd )
and audit session context. This subcommand is
intended for diagnostic purposes only, and its output should not be relied upon
in production scenarios. This command requires root privileges.
.It Xo Ar hostinfo
.Xc
Prints information about the system's host-special ports, including the
host-exception port. This subcommand requires root privileges.
.It Xo Ar resolveport Ar owner-pid Ar port-name
.Xc
Given a PID and the name of a Mach port right in that process' port namespace,
resolves that port to an endpoint name known to
.Nm launchd .
This subcommand requires root privileges.
.It Xo Ar examine Op Ar tool Ar arg0 Ar arg1 Ar @PID Ar ...
.Xc
Causes
.Nm launchd
to
.Xr fork 2
itself for examination by a profiling tool and prints the PID of this new
instance to stdout. You are responsible for killing this snapshot when it is no
longer needed.
.Pp
Many profiling tools cannot safely examine
.Nm launchd
because they depend on the functionality it provides. This subcommand
creates an effective snapshot of
.Nm launchd
that can be examined independently. Note that on Darwin platforms,
.Xr fork 2
is implemented such that only the thread which called
.Xr fork 2
is replicated into the new child process, so this subcommand is not useful for
examining any thread other than the main event loop.
.Pp
This subcommand takes an optional invocation of a tool to be used on the
.Nm launchd
snapshot. Where you would normally give the PID of the process to be examined
in the tool's invocation, instead specify the argument "@PID", and
.Nm launchctl
will substitute that argument with the PID of the launchd snapshot in its
subsequent execution of the tool. If used in this form,
.Nm launchctl
will automatically kill the snapshot instance when the examination tool exits.
.Pp
This subcommand may only be used against a DEVELOPMENT
.Nm launchd .
.It Xo Ar config Ar system | user Ar parameter Ar value
.Xc
Sets persistent configuration information for
.Xr launchd 8
domains. Only the system domain and user domains may be configured. The
location of the persistent storage is an implementation detail, and changes to
that storage should
.Em only
be made through this subcommand. A reboot is required for changes made through
this subcommand to take effect.
.Pp
Supported configuration parameters are:
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It umask
Sets the
.Xr umask 2
for services within the target domain to the value specified by
.Ar value .
Note that this value is parsed by
.Xr strtoul 3
as an octal-encoded number, so there is no need to prefix it with a leading '0'.
.It path
Sets the PATH environment variable for all services within the target domain to
the string
.Ar value .
The string
.Ar value
should conform to the format outlined for the PATH environment variable in
.Xr environ 7 .
Note that if a service specifies its own PATH, the service-specific environment
variable will take precedence.
.Pp
.Em NOTE :
This facility cannot be used to set general environment variables for all
services within the domain. It is intentionally scoped to the PATH environment
variable and nothing else for security reasons.
.El
.It Xo Ar reboot Ar [system|userspace|halt|logout|apps]
.Xc
Instructs
.Nm launchd
to begin tearing down userspace. With no argument given or with the
.Ar system
argument given,
.Nm launchd
will make the
.Xr reboot 2
system call when userspace has been completely torn down. With the
.Ar halt
argument given,
.Nm launchd
will make the
.Xr reboot 2
system call when userspace has been completely torn down and pass the
.Ar RB_HALT
flag, halting the system and not initiating a reboot.
.Pp
With the
.Ar userspace
argument given,
.Nm launchd
will re-exec itself when userspace has been torn down and bring userspace back
up. This is useful for rebooting the system quickly under conditions where
kernel data structures or hardware do not need to be re-initialized.
.Pp
With the
.Ar logout
argument given, launchd will tear down the caller's GUI login session in a
manner similar to a logout initiated from the Apple menu. The key difference is
that a logout initiated through this subcommand will be much faster since it
will not give apps a chance to display modal dialogs to block logout
indefinitely; therefore there is data corruption risk to using this option. Only
use it when you know you have no unsaved data in your running apps.
.Pp
With the
.Ar apps
argument given, launchd will terminate all apps running in the caller's GUI
login session that did not come from a
.Xr launchd.plist 5
on-disk. Apps like Finder, Dock and SystemUIServer will be unaffected. Apps are
terminated in the same manner as the
.Ar logout
argument, and all the same caveats apply.
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Fl s
When rebooting the machine (either a full reboot or userspace reboot), brings
the subsequent boot session up in single-user mode.
.El
.It Xo Ar error Ar [posix|mach|bootstrap] Ar code
.Xc
Prints a human-readable string of the given error
.Ar code .
By default,
.Nm
will attempt to guess which error domain the code given belongs to. The caller
may optionally specify which domain (either
.Ar posix ,
.Ar mach ,
or
.Ar bootstrap )
to interpret the given code as an error from that subsystem.
.It Xo Ar variant
.Xc
Prints the
.Nm launchd
variant currently active on the system. Possible variants include RELEASE,
DEVELOPMENT and DEBUG.
.It Xo Ar version
.Xc
Prints the
.Nm launchd
version string.
.El
.Sh LEGACY SUBCOMMANDS
Subcommands from the previous implementation of 
.Nm launchd
are generally available, though some may be unimplemented. Unimplemented
subcommands are documented as such.
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Xo Ar load | unload Op Fl wF
.Op Fl S Ar sessiontype
.Op Fl D Ar searchpath
.Ar paths ...
.Xc
Load the specified configuration files or directories of configuration files.
Jobs that are not on-demand will be started as soon as possible. All specified 
jobs will be loaded before any of them are allowed to start. Note that per-user 
configuration files (LaunchAgents) must be owned by root (if they are located in
.Nm /Library/LaunchAgents )
or the user loading them (if they are located in
.Nm $HOME/Library/LaunchAgents ) .
All system-wide daemons (LaunchDaemons) must be owned by root. Configuration
files must disallow group and world writes. These restrictions are in place for
security reasons, as allowing writability to a launchd configuration file allows
one to specify which executable will be launched.
.Pp
Note that allowing non-root write access to the 
.Nm /System/Library/LaunchDaemons 
directory WILL render your system unbootable.
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Fl w
Overrides the Disabled key and sets it to false or true for the load and unload
subcommands respectively. In previous versions, this option would modify the
configuration file. Now the state of the Disabled key is stored elsewhere on-
disk in a location that may not be directly manipulated by any process other
than
.Nm launchd .
.It Fl F
Force the loading or unloading of the plist. Ignore the Disabled key.
.It Fl S Ar sessiontype
Some jobs only make sense in certain contexts. This flag instructs
.Nm launchctl
to look for jobs in a different location when using the -D flag, and allows
.Nm launchctl
to restrict which jobs are loaded into which session types. Sessions are only
relevant for per-user
.Nm launchd
contexts. Relevant sessions are Aqua (the default), Background and LoginWindow.
Background agents may be loaded independently of a GUI login. Aqua agents are
loaded only when a user has logged in at the GUI. LoginWindow agents are loaded
when the LoginWindow UI is displaying and currently run as root.
.It Fl D Ar searchpath
Load or unload all
.Xr plist 5 files in the search path given. This option may be thought of as
expanding into many individual paths depending on the search path given. Valid
search paths include "system," "local," and "all." When providing a session
type, an additional search path is available for use called "user." For
example, without a session type given, "-D system" would load from or unload
all property list files from
.Nm /System/Library/LaunchDaemons .
With a session type passed, it would load from
.Nm /System/Library/LaunchAgents .
Note that
.Nm launchctl
no longer respects the network search path.
.Pp
In a previous version of launchd, these search paths were called "domains",
hence -D. The word "domain" is now used for a totally different concept.
.El
.Pp
.Em NOTE :
Due to bugs in the previous implementation and long-standing client expectations
around those bugs, the
.Fa load
and
.Fa unload
subcommands will only return a non-zero exit code due to improper usage.
Otherwise, zero is always returned.
.It Xo Ar submit Fl l Ar label
.Op Fl p Ar executable
.Op Fl o Ar stdout-path
.Op Fl e Ar stderr-path
.Ar -- command
.Op Ar arg0
.Op Ar arg1
.Op Ar ...
.Xc
A simple way of submitting a program to run without a configuration file. This
mechanism also tells launchd to keep the program alive in the event of failure.
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Fl l Ar label
What unique label to assign this job to launchd.
.It Fl p Ar program
What program to really execute, regardless of what follows the -- in the submit
sub-command.
.It Fl o Ar stdout-path
Where to send the stdout of the program.
.It Fl e Ar stderr-path
Where to send the stderr of the program.
.El
.It Ar remove Ar label
Remove the job from launchd by label. This subcommand will return immediately
and not block until the job has been stopped.
.It Ar start Ar label
Start the specified job by label. The expected use of this subcommand is for
debugging and testing so that one can manually kick-start an on-demand server.
.It Ar stop Ar label
Stop the specified job by label. If a job is on-demand, launchd may immediately
restart the job if launchd finds any criteria that is satisfied.
.It Xo Ar list 
.Op Ar -x 
.Op Ar label
.Xc
With no arguments, list all of the jobs loaded into
.Nm launchd
in three columns. The first column displays the PID of the job if it is running.
The second column displays the last exit status of the job. If the number in
this column is negative, it represents the negative of the signal which stopped
the job. Thus, "-15" would indicate that the job was terminated with SIGTERM. 
The third column is the job's label. If
.Op Ar label
is specified, prints information about the requested job.
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Fl x
This flag is no longer supported.
.El
.Pp
.It Ar setenv Ar key Ar value
Specify an environment variable to be set on all future processes launched by
.Nm launchd
in the caller's context.
.It Ar unsetenv Ar key
Specify that an environment variable no longer be set on any future processes
launched by
.Nm launchd
in the caller's context.
.It Ar getenv Ar key
Print the value of an environment variable that 
.Nm launchd
would set for all processes launched into the caller's context.
.It Ar export
Export all of the environment variables of
.Nm launchd
for use in a shell eval statement.
.It Ar getrusage self | children
Get the resource utilization statistics for
.Nm launchd
or the children of
.Nm launchd .
This subcommand is not implemented.
.It Xo Ar log
.Op Ar level loglevel
.Op Ar only | mask loglevels...
.Xc
Get and set the
.Xr syslog 3
log level mask. The available log levels are: debug, info, notice, warning,
error, critical, alert and emergency. This subcommand is not implemented.
.It Xo Ar limit
.Op Ar cpu | filesize | data | stack | core | rss | memlock | maxproc | maxfiles
.Op Ar both Op Ar soft | hard
.Xc
With no arguments, this command prints all the resource limits of
.Nm launchd
as found via
.Xr getrlimit 2 .
When a given resource is specified, it prints the limits for that resource. With
a third argument, it sets both the hard and soft limits to that value. With four
arguments, the third and forth argument represent the soft and hard limits
respectively.
See
.Xr setrlimit 2 .
.It Ar shutdown
Tell
.Nm launchd
to prepare for shutdown by removing all jobs. This subcommand is not
implemented.
.It Ar umask Op Ar newmask
Get or optionally set the
.Xr umask 2
of
.Nm launchd .
This subcommand is not implemented.
.It Xo Ar bslist
.Op Ar PID | ..
.Op Ar -j
.Xc
This
subcommand is not implemented and has been superseded by the
.Ar print
subcommand, which provides much richer information.
.Pp
.It Ar bsexec Ar PID command Op Ar args
This executes the given command in as similar an execution context as possible
to the target PID. Adopted attributes include the Mach bootstrap namespace,
exception server and security audit session. It does not modify the process'
credentials (UID, GID, etc.) or adopt any environment variables from the target
process. It affects only the Mach bootstrap context and directly-related
attributes.
.Pp
.It Ar asuser Ar UID command Op Ar args
This executes the given command in as similar an execution context as possible
to that of the target user's bootstrap. Adopted attributes include the Mach
bootstrap namespace, exception server and security audit session. It does not
modify the process' credentials (UID, GID, etc.) or adopt any user-specific
environment variables. It affects only the Mach bootstrap context and directly-
related attributes.
.It Ar bstree
This
subcommand is not implemented and has been superseded by the
.Ar print
subcommand, which provides much richer information.
.It Ar managerpid
This prints the PID of the launchd which manages the current bootstrap. In prior
implementations, there could be multiple
.Nm launchd
processes each managing their own Mach bootstrap subsets. In the current
implementation, all bootstraps are managed by one process, so this subcommand
will always print "1".
.It Ar manageruid
This prints the UID associated with the caller's launchd context.
.It Ar managername
This prints the name of the launchd job manager which manages the current
launchd context. See LimitLoadToSessionType in
.Xr launchd.plist 5
for more details.
.It Ar help
Print out a quick usage statement.
.El
.Sh CAVEATS
The output produced by the "legacy" subcommands (chiefly
.Ar list )
should match their output on previous OS X releases. However, the output of
newer subcommands does not conform to any particular format
and is not guaranteed to remain stable across releases. These commands are
intended for use by human developers and system administrators, not for
automation by programs or scripts. Their output does not constitute an API
and no promises of forward compatibility are offered to programs that attempt
to parse it.
.Sh DEPRECATED AND REMOVED FUNCTIONALITY
.Nm
no longer has an interactive mode, nor does it accept commands from stdin. The
.Nm /etc/launchd.conf
file is no longer consulted for subcommands to run during early boot time; this
functionality was removed for security considerations. While it was documented
that
.Nm $HOME/.launchd.conf
would be consulted prior to setting up a user's session, this functionality was
never implemented.
.Pp
launchd no longer uses Unix domain sockets for communication, so the
.Nm LAUNCHD_SOCKET
environment variable is no longer relevant and is not set.
.Pp
.Nm launchd
no longer loads configuration files from the network
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width "/System/Library/LaunchDaemons" -compact
.It Pa ~/Library/LaunchAgents
Per-user agents provided by the user.
.It Pa /Library/LaunchAgents
Per-user agents provided by the administrator.
.It Pa /Library/LaunchDaemons
System wide daemons provided by the administrator.
.It Pa /System/Library/LaunchAgents
OS X Per-user agents.
.It Pa /System/Library/LaunchDaemons
OS X System wide daemons.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Nm launchctl
will exit with status 0 if the subcommand succeeded. Otherwise, it will exit
with an error code that can be given to the
.Ar error
subcommand to be decoded into human-readable form.
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.Xr launchd.plist 5 ,
.Xr launchd 8 ,
.Xr audit 8 ,
.Xr setaudit_addr 2
