.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.Dd 4/19/17               \" DATE
.Dt SAFARIDRIVER 1        \" Program name and manual section number
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME                  \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm safaridriver
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line.
.Nd Safari WebDriver REST API service
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Fl p Ar port             \" -p port
.Oo Fl h | Fl \-help Oc   \" [-h | --help]
.Op Fl \-enable            \" [ --enable ]
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
The
.Nm
utility is used to launch an HTTP server that implements the Selenium
WebDriver REST API. When launched,
.Nm
allows for automated testing of
web content using the version of Safari that is installed with macOS.
.Pp
.Nm
supports several capabilities that can customize an automation session's behavior
for a particular testing purpose. Capabilities are provided as arguments when requesting
a new session.
The capabilities supported by
.Nm
are listed in the
.Sx OPTIONS
section below. Unless noted below, the values of requested capability keys are not read
and are assumed to be true if present, and false otherwise.
.Pp
To use capabilities in your tests, please refer to the relevant 3rd-party documentation to learn
how to request extra capabilities with the WebDriver client library that you are using.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Ss Command line options
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Fl p , Fl - Ns Ar port Aq Ar port
Specifies the port on which the HTTP server should listen for incoming
connections. If the port is already in use or otherwise unavailable,
.Nm
will exit immediately with a non-zero return code.
.It Fl h, Fl \-help
Prints a usage message and exits.
.It Fl \-enable
Applies configuration changes so that subsequent WebDriver sessions will run without
further authentication. This includes turning on Safari's
.Em Develop
menu and checking "Enable Remote Automation" in the
.Em Develop
menu. The user must authenticate via password for the changes to be applied.
.Pp
When this option is specified,
.Nm
exits immediately without starting up the REST API service. If the changes were
successful or already applied,
.Nm
exits 0; otherwise,
.Nm
exits >0 and prints an error message to stderr.
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Ss Available capabilities
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Ar safari:automaticInspection
This capability instructs Safari to preload the Web Inspector and JavaScript debugger in
the background prior to returning a newly-created window. To pause the test's execution in
JavaScript and bring up Web Inspector's Debugger tab, you can simply evaluate a
.Ic debugger;
statement in the test page.
.It Ar safari:automaticProfiling
This capability instructs Safari to preload the Web Inspector and start a Timeline recording
in the background prior to returning a newly-created window. To view the recording, open
the Web Inspector through Safari's
.Em Develop
menu.
.It Ar webkit:WebRTC
This capability allows a test to temporarily change Safari's policies for WebRTC and Media Capture.
The value of the
.Em webkit:WebRTC
capability is a dictionary with the following sub-keys, all of which are optional:
.Bl -ohang -offset indent
.It Ar DisableInsecureMediaCapture
Normally, Safari refuses to allow media capture over insecure connections. This capability
suppresses that restriction for testing purposes. For example, it would allow a test to exercise
media capture code paths using a local test web server that is not configured to use HTTPS.
.It Ar DisableICECandidateFiltering
To protect a user's privacy, Safari normally filters out WebRTC ICE candidates that correspond to internal
network addresses when capture devices are not in use. This capability suppresses ICE candidate
filtering so that both internal and external network addresses are always sent as ICE candidates.
.El
.El
.Sh NOTES
For security reasons, the HTTP server accepts connections from localhost only. The
HTTP server can accept connections from multiple test clients. Currently, only one
Safari may be automated at a time, so it is not recommended to run multiple
.Nm
instances at the same time.
.Pp
.Nm
is typically executed manually at the command line or automatically by a
WebDriver client library. The Selenium project provides client libraries
for most popular programming languages. More information is available on the
Selenium project website:
.Pp
.D1 Em https://www.seleniumhq.org/
.Sh SEE ALSO
A summary of which REST API endpoints
.Nm
supports, as well as the Safari version in which each endpoint became available, can be found on the Apple Developer website:
.Pp
.D1 Em https://developer.apple.com/
.Pp
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Ex -std                 \" The safaridriver utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.
.Pp
When a REST API command fails,
.Nm
includes a detailed error message in the response. If you use a 3rd-party library
on top of the REST API service, consult the library's documentation for how to
access these error messages.
.Sh STANDARDS
.Nm
implements the Selenium WebDriver JSON Wire Protocol as described by the
Selenium WebDriver test suites and the protocol summary published here:
.Pp
.D1 Em https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/wiki/JsonWireProtocol
