.\""Copyright (c) 2002 Apple Computer, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.Dd September 2, 2010
.Dt TIFFUTIL 1  
.Os "macOS"
.Sh NAME
tiffutil \- manipulates tiff files
.Sh SYNOPSIS
tiffutil <option> [<arguments>] [-out <outfile>]
.Sh DESCRIPTION
tiffutil lets you manipulate TIFF files. The list of options (also available by
running the program without any options) follows:
.Pp
tiffutil -none             infile                  [-out outfile]
         -lzw              infile                  [-out outfile]
         -packbits         infile                  [-out outfile]
         -cat              infile1 [infile2 ...]   [-out outfile]
         -catnosizecheck   infile1 [infile2 ...]   [-out outfile]
         -cathidpicheck    infile1 [infile2 ...]   [-out outfile]
         -extract          num infile              [-out outfile]
         -info             infile
         -verboseinfo      infile
         -dump             infile
.Pp
-none, -lzw, and -packbits options specify the compression format
to be applied to the images in the TIFF file.  -none specifies no compression; -packbits specifies PackBits compression; -lzw specifies standard 
Lempel-Ziv & Welch compression (no prediction scheme).
.Pp
-cat allows combining multiple TIFF files into one.  The images are
copied without any change in tag values. If the real sizes (pixel size divided by dpi) of the 
images being combined are not the same, a warning will be generated. This makes sure that NSImage can 
successfully choose the right size image out of the generated TIFF file. Use -catnosizecheck to bypass the size check.
.Pp
-cathidpicheck can be used to write an output file conforming to Apple's guidelines for resolution independent bitmap images, 
and will generate warnings if the supplied images do not have the recommended size relationship. For best results, ensure that 
the larger file has a filename of the form <basename>@2x.png.
.Pp
-extract allows extracting an individual image from a TIFF file; specify
num = 0 for the first image in the file.
.Pp
-info prints information about TIFF images. -verboseinfo is the same,
except most of the tables are displayed in full. -dump simply lists
all of the tags in the file without trying to interpret them; it is
handy when trying to figure out why a TIFF file won't load or display properly.
.Pp
For options which write images out, the output goes to "out.tiff" unless
an output file name is specified after a -out keyword.  This keyword and the
file must be the last items on the command line. -info, -verboseinfo, and
-dump write their output to the standard output.
.Pp
If there are multiple images in a TIFF file the specified operation will be
performed on all of them.
.Pp
SECURITY NOTE: This version of tiffutil SHOULD NOT be used with untrusted files.
.Pp
.Sh CREDITS
Parts of tiffutil were based on the freely distributable "tiffcp" and 
"tiffinfo" programs written by Sam Leffler and made available with v3.0
of his excellent TIFF library. The TIFF library and the tiffcp and tiffinfo
programs are:
  Copyright (c) 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1992 Sam Leffler
  Copyright (c) 1991, 1992 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
