.Dd Nov 29, 2010
.Dt XATTR 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm xattr
.Nd display and manipulate extended attributes
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl lrsvx
.Ar file ...
.Nm
.Fl p
.Op Fl lrsvx
.Ar attr_name
.Ar file ...
.Nm
.Fl w
.Op Fl rsx
.Ar attr_name attr_value
.Ar file ...
.Nm
.Fl d
.Op Fl rsv
.Ar attr_name
.Ar file ...
.Nm
.Fl c
.Op Fl rsv
.Ar file ...
.Nm
.Fl h | -help
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
command can be used to display, modify or remove the extended attributes
of one or more files, including directories and symbolic links.
Extended attributes are arbitrary metadata stored with a file, but separate
from the filesystem attributes (such as modification time or file size).
The metadata is often a null-terminated UTF-8 string, but can also be arbitrary
binary data.
.Pp
One or more files may be specified on the command line.
For the first two forms of the command, when there are more than one file,
the file name is displayed along with the actual results.
When only one file is specified, the display of the file name is usually
suppressed (unless the
.Fl v
option described below, is also specified).
.Pp
In the first form of the command (without any other mode option specified),
the names of all extended attributes are listed.
Attribute names can also be displayed using
.Dq Li ls -l@ .
.Pp
In the second form, using the
.Fl p
option
.Pq Dq print ,
the value associated with the given attribute name is displayed.
Attribute values are usually displayed as strings.
However, if nils are detected
in the data, the value is displayed in a hexadecimal representation.
.Pp
The third form, with the
.Fl w
option
.Pq Dq write ,
causes the given attribute name to be assigned the given value.
.Pp
The fourth form, with the
.Fl d
option
.Pq Dq delete ,
causes the given attribute name (and associated value), to be removed.
.Pp
In the fifth form, with the
.Fl c
option
.Pq Dq clear ,
causes all attributes (including their associated values), to be removed.
.Pp
Finally, the last form, with either the
.Fl h
or
.Fl -help
option, displays a short help message and exits immediately.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width XX
.It Fl l
By default, the first two command forms either displays just the attribute
names or values, respectively.
The
.Fl l
option causes both the attribute names and corresponding values to be displayed.
For hexadecimal display of values,
the output is preceeded with the hexadecimal offset values and
followed by ASCII display, enclosed by
.Dq | .
.It Fl r
If a file argument is a directory, act as if the entire contents of the
directory recursively were also specified (so that every file in the directory
tree is acted upon).
.It Fl s
If a file argument is a symbolic link, act on the symbolic link itself, rather
than the file that the symbolic link points at.
.It Fl v
Force the the file name to be displayed, even for a single file.
.It Fl x
Force the attribute value to be displayed in the hexadecimal representation.
.Pp
The
.Fl w
option normally assumes the input attribute value is a string.
Specifying the
.Fl x
option causes
.Nm
to expect the input in hexadecimal (whitespace is ignored).
The
.Xr xxd 1
command can be used to create hexadecimal representations from exising
binary data, to pass to
.Nm .
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
The
.Nm
command exits with zero status on success.
On error, non-zero is returned, and an error message is printed to the standard
error.
For system call errors, both the error code and error string are printed (see
.Xr getxattr 2 ,
.Xr listxattr 2 ,
.Xr removexattr 2
and
.Xr setxattr 2
for a complete list of possible error codes).
.Pp
Some attribute data may have a fixed length that is enforced by the system.
For example,
.Bd -literal -offset indent
% xattr -w com.apple.FinderInfo 0 foo
xattr: [Errno 34] Result too large: 'foo'
.Ed
.Pp
The
.Li com.apple.FinderInfo
attribute must be 32 bytes in length.
.Sh EXAMPLES
This example copies the
.Li com.apple.FinderInfo
attribute from the
.Li /usr
directory to the
.Li MyDir
directory:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
% xattr -px com.apple.FinderInfo /usr
00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 40 00 00 00 00 00 00 00
00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00
% xattr -l MyDir
% xattr -wx com.apple.FinderInfo \\
  "`xattr -px com.apple.FinderInfo /usr`" MyDir
% xattr -l MyDir
com.apple.FinderInfo:
00000000  00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 40 00 00 00 00 00 00 00  |........@.......|
00000010  00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00  |................|
00000020
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ls 1 ,
.Xr xxd 1 ,
.Xr getxattr 2 ,  
.Xr listxattr 2 ,  
.Xr removexattr 2 ,  
.Xr setxattr 2
