.TH YAA 1
.SH NAME
yaa \- Manipulate YAA archives
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B yaa \fBverb\fR [\fBoptions\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B yaa creates and manipulates YAA archives.
.SH VERBS
.P
\fBcreate\fR\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ Archive the contents of the target directory
.P
\fBextract\fR\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ Extract the contents of an archive to the target directory
.P
\fBlist\fR\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ List the contents of an archive
.P
\fBinfo\fR\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ Print archive metadata
.P
\fBconvert\fR\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ Convert an archive into another archive
.P
\fBmanifest\fR\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ Alias for 'archive -manifest'
.P
\fBindex\fR\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ Alias for 'convert -index'

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BR \-v
Increase verbosity. Default is silent operation.
.TP
.BR \-h
Print usage and exit.
.TP
.BR \-d\ \fItarget_dir\fR
Target directory. Default is the current directory.
.TP
.BR \-i\ \fIinput_file\fR
Input file. Default is \fIstdin\fR.
.TP
.BR \-ioffset\ \fIinput_offset\fR
Bytes to skip in \fIinput_file\fR. Default is 0 to read from the beginning of the file.
.TP
.BR \-isize\ \fIinput_size\fR
Bytes to read from \fIinput_file\fR. Default is -1 to read all available data.
.TP
.BR \-iindex\ \fIinput_index\fR
YAA index corresponding to \fIinput_file\fR. The index is used to accelerate sparse archive reading, in conjonction with the entry name/type selection options.
.TP
.BR \-o\ \fIoutput_file\fR
Output file. Default is \fIstdout\fR.
.TP
.BR \-a\ \fIalgorithm\fR
Compression algorithm used when creating archives. One of \fIlzfse\fR, \fIlzma\fR, \fIlz4\fR, \fIzlib\fR, \fIraw\fR. Default is \fIlzfse\fR.
.TP
.BR \-b\ \fIblock_size\fR
Block size used when compressing archives, a number with optional b,k,m,g suffix (bytes are assumed if no suffix is specified). Default is \fI4m\fR.
.TP
.BR \-t\ \fIworker_threads\fR
Number of worker threads compressing/decompressing data. Default is the number of logical CPU on the running machine.
.TP
.BR \-wt\ \fIwriter_threads\fR
Number of writer threads extracting archive content. Default is to match \fIworker_threads\fR.
.TP
.BR \-exclude\-metadata
Skip insertion of a leading metadata entry in the generated archives. This metadata entry contains a list of the included fields. It is printed by the \fBinfo\fR command.
.TP
.BR \-include-path\ \fIprefix\fR
Include entry paths matching \fIprefix\fR. This option can be given multiple times.
.TP
.BR \-exclude-path\ \fIprefix\fR
Exclude entry paths matching \fIprefix\fR. This option can be given multiple times.
.TP
.BR \-include-path-list\ \fI<prefix_list_file>\fR
File containing a list of path prefixes to include, one entry per line. This option can be given multiple times.
.TP
.BR \-exclude-path-list\ \fI<prefix_list_file>\fR
File containing a list of path prefixes to exclude, one entry per line. This option can be given multiple times.
.TP
.BR \-exclude\-name\ \fIname\fR
Exclude entry paths where a single component of the path matches exactly \fIname\fR. This option can be given multiple times.
.TP
.BR \-include\-type\ \fI<type_spec>\fR
Include only entries matching the given types. \fI<type_spec>\fR is a word containing one or more of the entry type characters listed below.
.TP
.BR \-exclude\-type\ \fI<type_spec>\fR
Exclude only entries matching the given types. \fI<type_spec>\fR is a word containing one or more of the entry type characters listed below.
.TP
.BR \-include\-field\ \fI<field_spec>\fR
Add the given fields to the set of fields to include with each entry. This option can be given multiple times. \fI<field_spec>\fR is a comma separated list of entry field tags listed below.
.TP
.BR \-exclude\-field\ \fI<field_spec>\fR
Remove the given fields to the set of fields to include with each entry. This option can be given multiple times. \fI<field_spec>\fR is a comma separated list of entry field tags listed below.
.TP
.BR \-manifest
Alias for the following options:
.br
\fB\-exclude\-field\fR \fIdat\fR
.br
\fB\-include\-field\fR \fIsh1,cks,siz\fR
.br
\fB\-a\fR \fIlzfse\fR \fB\-b\fR \fI1m\fR
.TP
.BR \-index
Alias for the following options:
.br
\fB\-exclude\-field\fR \fIall\fR
.br
\fB\-include\-field\fR \fIidx\fR
.br
\fB\-a\fR \fIlzfse\fR \fB\-b\fR \fI1m\fR
.TP
.B entry\ types
.br
\fBb\fR block special
.br
\fBc\fR character special
.br
\fBd\fR directory
.br
\fBf\fR regular file
.br
\fBh\fR hard link
.br
\fBl\fR symbolic link
.br
\fBm\fR metadata
.br
\fBp\fR fifo
.br
\fBs\fR socket
.TP
.B entry\ fields
.br
\fBtyp\fR entry type
.br
\fBpat\fR path
.br
\fBlnk\fR link path
.br
\fBdev\fR device id
.br
\fBuid\fR user id
.br
\fBgid\fR group id
.br
\fBmod\fR access permissions
.br
\fBflg\fR flags
.br
\fBmtm\fR modification time
.br
\fBxat\fR extended attributes
.br
\fBacl\fR access control list
.br
\fBcks\fR CRC32 checksum
.br
\fBsh1\fR SHA1 digest
.br
\fBsh2\fR SHA2 digest
.br
\fBdat\fR file contents
.br
\fBsiz\fR file size
.br
\fBduz\fR disk usage
.br
\fBidx\fR entry index in main archive
.br
\fByaf\fR YAA fields (in metadata entry)
.br
\fBall\fR alias for all fields
.br
\fBattr\fR alias for \fIuid,gid,mod,flg,mtm\fR
.br
\fBother\fR other fields (not in this list)

.TP
.B default\ entry\ fields
.br
\fBtyp,pat,lnk,dev,uid,gid,mod,flg,mtm,dat,duz\fR

.TP
.B entry\ selection
.br
\fB-include-path\fR and \fB-include-path-list\fR options are applied first to select an initial set of entries, then \fB-exclude-path\fR, \fB-exclude-path-list\fR and \fB-exclude-name\fR are applied to remove entries from this set.
If no \fB-include-path\fR or \fB-include-path-list\fR option is given, all entries are included in the initial set.
If a directory is included/excluded, the entire sub-tree is included/excluded.

.SH EXAMPLES

.br
.TP
Archive the contents of directory \fIfoo\fR into archive \fIfoo.yaa\fR, using LZMA compression with 8 MB blocks

.B yaa archive -d foo -o foo.yaa -a lzma -b 8m

.TP
Extract the contents of \fIfoo.yaa\fR in directory \fIdst\fR

.B yaa extract -d dst -i foo.yaa

.TP
Create a manifest of the contents of directory \fIfoo\fR into \fIfoo.manifest\fR, using LZFSE compression with 1 MB blocks

.B yaa manifest -d foo -o foo.manifest -a lzfse -b 1m

.TP
Verify the contents of \fIdst\fR match the manifest \fIfoo.manifest\fR

.B yaa verify -i foo.manifest -d dst -v

.TP
Print all entry paths in \fIfoo.manifest\fR

.B yaa list -i foo.manifest

.TP
Print all entry paths, uid, gid for regular files in \fIfoo.manifest\fR

.B yaa list -v -i foo.manifest -include-type f -exclude-field all -include-field uid,gid,pat

.TP
Create a manifest of the contents of archive \fIfoo.yaa\fR in \fIfoo.manifest\fR

.B yaa convert -manifest -v -i foo.yaa -o foo.manifest

.TP
Create an index of the contents of archive \fIfoo.yaa\fR in \fIfoo.index\fR

.B yaa index -v -i foo.yaa -o foo.index

.TP
Extract a subset of entries matching prefix \fIApplications/Mail.app\fR from archive \fIfoo.yaa\fR in directory \fIdst\fR

.B yaa extract -i foo.yaa -include-path Applications/Mail.app -d dst

.TP
Extract the same files as in the previous example, but use \fIfoo.index\fR to accelerate extraction

.B yaa extract -i foo.yaa -include-path Applications/Mail.app -d dst -iindex foo.index

.RE
