.TH MEMCACHE_TABLE 5 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
memcache_table
\-
Postfix memcache client configuration
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
\fBpostmap -q "\fIstring\fB" memcache:/etc/postfix/filename\fR

\fBpostmap -q - memcache:/etc/postfix/\fIfilename\fR <\fIinputfile\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
The Postfix mail system uses optional tables for address
rewriting or mail routing. These tables are usually in
\fBdbm\fR or \fBdb\fR format.

Alternatively, lookup tables can be specified as memcache
instances.  To use memcache lookups, define a memcache
source as a lookup table in main.cf, for example:

.nf
    virtual_alias_maps = memcache:/etc/postfix/memcache-aliases.cf
.fi

The file /etc/postfix/memcache-aliases.cf has the same
format as the Postfix main.cf file, and specifies the
parameters described below.

The Postfix memcache client supports the lookup, update,
delete and sequence (first/next) operations. The sequence
operation requires a backup database that supports the
operation.
.SH "MEMCACHE MAIN PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBmemcache (default: inet:localhost:11211)\fR"
The memcache server (note: singular) that Postfix will try
to connect to.  For a TCP server specify "inet:" followed by
a hostname or address, ":", and a port name or number.
Specify an IPv6 address inside "[]".
For a UNIX-domain server specify "unix:" followed by the
socket pathname. Examples:

.nf
    memcache = inet:memcache.example.com:11211
    memcache = inet:127.0.0.1:11211
    memcache = inet:[fc00:8d00:189::3]:11211
    memcache = unix:/path/to/socket
.fi

NOTE: to access a UNIX-domain socket with the proxymap(8)
server, the socket must be accessible by the unprivileged
postfix user.
.IP "\fBbackup (default: undefined)\fR"
An optional Postfix database that provides persistent backup
for the memcache database. The Postfix memcache client will
update the memcache database whenever it looks up or changes
information in the persistent database. Specify a Postfix
"type:table" database. Examples:

.nf
    # Non-shared postscreen cache.
    backup = btree:/var/lib/postfix/postscreen_cache_map

    # Shared postscreen cache for processes on the same host.
    backup = proxy:btree:/var/lib/postfix/postscreen_cache_map
.fi

Access to remote proxymap servers is under development.

NOTE 1: When using memcache with persistent backup as
\fBpostscreen\fR(8) or \fBverify\fR(8) cache, disable
automatic cache cleanup (*_cache_cleanup_interval = 0) in
all Postfix instances except for one instance that will be
responsible for cache cleanup.

NOTE 2: In the case of a proxied backup database, the full
backup database
name (including the "proxy:" prefix) must be specified in
the proxymap server's proxy_read_maps or proxy_write_maps
setting (depending on whether the access is read-only or
read-write).
.IP "\fBflags (default: 0)\fR"
Optional flags that should be stored along with a memcache
update.
.IP "\fBttl (default: 3600)\fR"
The expiration time in seconds of memcache updates.

NOTE 1: When using a memcache table as \fBpostscreen\fR(8)
or \fBverify\fR(8) cache without persistent backup, specify
a zero *_cache_cleanup_interval value with all Postfix
instances that use the memcache, and specify the largest
\fBpostscreen\fR(8) *_ttl value or \fBverify\fR(8) *_expire_time
value as the memcache table's \fBttl\fR value.

NOTE 2: According to memcache protocol documentation, a
value greater than 30 days (2592000 seconds) specifies
absolute UNIX
time. Smaller values are relative to the time of the update.
.SH "MEMCACHE KEY PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBkey_format (default: %s)\fB"
Format of the lookup and update keys in memcache requests.
By default, these are the same as the lookup and update
keys that are given to the Postfix memcache client.

NOTE: The \fBkey_format\fR feature is not used for \fBbackup\fR
database requests.

When the same memcache database is used to cache information
from multiple tables, you can use the \fBkey_format\fR
feature to avoid name collisions by prepending a fixed
string.  Examples:

.nf
    key_format = aliases:%s
    key_format = access:%s
.fi

The \fBkey_format\fR parameter supports the following '%'
expansions:
.RS
.IP "\fB\fB%%\fR\fR"
This is replaced by a literal '%' character.
.IP "\fB\fB%s\fR\fR"
This is replaced by the memcache client input key.
.IP "\fB\fB%u\fR\fR"
When the input key is an address of the form user@domain,
\fB%u\fR is replaced by the SQL quoted local part of the
address.  Otherwise, \fB%u\fR is replaced by the entire
search string.  If the localpart is empty, a lookup is
silently suppressed and returns no results (an update is
skipped with a warning).
.IP "\fB\fB%d\fR\fR"
When the input key is an address of the form user@domain,
\fB%d\fR is replaced by the domain part of the address.
Otherwise, a lookup is silently suppressed and returns no
results (an update is skipped with a warning).
.IP "\fB\fB%[SUD]\fR\fR"
The upper-case equivalents of the above expansions behave
in the \fBkey_format\fR parameter identically to their
lower-case counter-parts.
.IP "\fB\fB%[1-9]\fR\fR"
The patterns %1, %2, ... %9 are replaced by the corresponding
most significant component of the input key's domain. If
the input key is \fIuser@mail.example.com\fR, then %1 is
\fBcom\fR, %2 is \fBexample\fR and %3 is \fBmail\fR. If the
input key is unqualified or does not have enough domain
components to satisfy all the specified patterns, a lookup
is silently suppressed and returns no results (an update
is skipped with a warning).
.RE
.IP "\fBdomain (default: no domain list)\fR"
This feature can significantly reduce database server load.
Specify a list of domain names, paths to files, or "type:table"
databases.
When specified, only fully qualified search keys with a
*non-empty* localpart and a matching domain are eligible
for lookup or update: bare 'user' lookups, bare domain
lookups and "@domain" lookups are silently skipped (updates
are skipped with a warning).  Example:

.nf
    domain = example.com, hash:/etc/postfix/searchdomains
.fi
.SH "MEMCACHE ERROR CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBdata_size_limit (default: 10240)\fR"
The maximal memcache reply data length in bytes.
.IP "\fBline_size_limit (default: 1024)\fR"
The maximal memcache reply line length in bytes.
.IP "\fBmax_try (default: 2)\fR"
The number of times to try a memcache command before giving
up.  The memcache client does not retry a command when the
memcache server accepts no connection.
.IP "\fBretry_pause (default: 1)\fR"
The time in seconds before retrying a failed memcache command.
.IP "\fBtimeout (default: 2)\fR"
The time limit for sending a memcache command and for
receiving a memcache reply.
.SH BUGS
.ad
.fi
The Postfix memcache client cannot be used for security-sensitive
tables such as \fBalias_maps\fR (these may contain
"\fI|command\fR and "\fI/file/name\fR" destinations), or
\fBvirtual_uid_maps\fR, \fBvirtual_gid_maps\fR and
\fBvirtual_mailbox_maps\fR (these specify UNIX process
privileges or "\fI/file/name\fR" destinations).  In a typical
deployment a memcache database is writable by any process
that can talk to the memcache server; in contrast,
security-sensitive tables must never be writable by the
unprivileged Postfix user.

The Postfix memcache client requires additional configuration
when used as \fBpostscreen\fR(8) or \fBverify\fR(8) cache.
For details see the \fBbackup\fR and \fBttl\fR parameter
discussions in the MEMCACHE MAIN PARAMETERS section above.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
postmap(1), Postfix lookup table manager
postconf(5), configuration parameters
.SH "README FILES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Use "\fBpostconf readme_directory\fR" or
"\fBpostconf html_directory\fR" to locate this information.
.na
.nf
DATABASE_README, Postfix lookup table overview
MEMCACHE_README, Postfix memcache client guide
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
The Secure Mailer license must be distributed with this software.
.SH "HISTORY"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Memcache support was introduced with Postfix version 2.9.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
