.TH POSTFIX-WRAPPER 5 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
postfix-wrapper
\-
Postfix multi-instance API
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
Support for managing multiple Postfix instances is available
as of version 2.6. Instances share executable files and
documentation, but have their own directories for configuration,
queue and data files.

This document describes how the familiar "postfix start"
etc. user interface can be used to manage one or multiple
Postfix instances, and gives details of an API to coordinate
activities between the postfix(1) command and a multi-instance
manager program.

With multi-instance support, the default Postfix instance
is always required. This instance is identified by the
config_directory parameter's default value.
.SH "GENERAL OPERATION"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Multi-instance support is backwards compatible: when you
run only one Postfix instance, commands such as "postfix
start" will not change behavior at all.

Even with multiple Postfix instances, you can keep using
the same postfix commands in boot scripts, upgrade procedures,
and other places. The commands do more work, but humans are
not forced to learn new tricks.

For example, to start all Postfix instances, use:
.IP
# postfix start
.PP
Other postfix(1) commands also work as expected. For example,
to find out what Postfix instances exist in a multi-instance
configuration, use:
.IP
# postfix status
.PP
This enumerates the status of all Postfix instances within
a multi-instance configuration.
.SH "MANAGING AN INDIVIDUAL POSTFIX INSTANCE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
To manage a specific Postfix instance, specify its configuration
directory on the postfix(1) command line:
.IP
# postfix -c \fI/path/to/config_directory command\fR
.PP
Alternatively, the postfix(1) command accepts the instance's
configuration directory via the MAIL_CONFIG environment
variable (the -c command-line option has higher precedence).

Otherwise, the postfix(1) command will operate on all Postfix
instances.
.SH "ENABLING POSTFIX(1) MULTI-INSTANCE MODE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
By default, the postfix(1) command operates in single-instance
mode. In this mode the command invokes the postfix-script
file directly (currently installed in the daemon directory).
This file contains the commands that start or stop one
Postfix instance, that upgrade the configuration of one
Postfix instance, and so on.

When the postfix(1) command operates in multi-instance mode
as discussed below, the command needs to execute start,
stop, etc.  commands for each Postfix instance.  This
multiplication of commands is handled by a multi-instance
manager program.

Turning on postfix(1) multi-instance mode goes as follows:
in the default Postfix instance's main.cf file, 1) specify
the pathname of a multi-instance manager program with the
multi_instance_wrapper parameter; 2) populate the
multi_instance_directories parameter with the configuration
directory pathnames of additional Postfix instances.  For
example:
.IP
.nf
/etc/postfix/main.cf:
    multi_instance_wrapper = $daemon_directory/postfix-wrapper
    multi_instance_directories = /etc/postfix-test
.fi
.PP
The $daemon_directory/postfix-wrapper file implements a
simple manager and contains instructions for creating Postfix
instances by hand.  The postmulti(1) command provides a
more extensive implementation including support for life-cycle
management.

The multi_instance_directories and other main.cf parameters
are listed below in the CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS section.

In multi-instance mode, the postfix(1) command invokes the
$multi_instance_wrapper command instead of the postfix-script
file. This multi-instance manager in turn executes the
postfix(1) command in single-instance mode for each Postfix
instance.

To illustrate the main ideas behind multi-instance operation,
below is an example of a simple but useful multi-instance
manager implementation:
.IP
.nf
#!/bin/sh

: ${command_directory?"do not invoke this command directly"}

POSTCONF=$command_directory/postconf
POSTFIX=$command_directory/postfix
instance_dirs=\`$POSTCONF -h multi_instance_directories |
                sed 's/,/ /'\` || exit 1

err=0
for dir in $config_directory $instance_dirs
do
    case "$1" in
    stop|abort|flush|reload|drain)
        test "\`$POSTCONF -c $dir -h multi_instance_enable\`" \e
            = yes || continue;;
    start)
        test "\`$POSTCONF -c $dir -h multi_instance_enable\`" \e
            = yes || {
            $POSTFIX -c $dir check || err=$?
            continue
        };;
    esac
    $POSTFIX -c $dir "$@" || err=$?
done

exit $err
.fi
.SH "PER-INSTANCE MULTI-INSTANCE MANAGER CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Each Postfix instance has its own main.cf file with parameters
that control how the multi-instance manager operates on
that instance.  This section discusses the most important
settings.

The setting "multi_instance_enable = yes" allows the
multi-instance manager to start (stop, etc.) the corresponding
Postfix instance. For safety reasons, this setting is not
the default.

The default setting "multi_instance_enable = no" is useful
for manual testing with "postfix -c \fI/path/name\fR start"
etc.  The multi-instance manager will not start such an
instance, and it will skip commands such as "stop" or "flush"
that require a running Postfix instance.  The multi-instance
manager will execute commands such as "check", "set-permissions"
or "upgrade-configuration", and it will replace "start" by
"check" so that problems will be reported even when the
instance is disabled.
.SH "MAINTAINING SHARED AND NON-SHARED FILES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Some files are shared between Postfix instances, such as
executables and manpages, and some files are per-instance,
such as configuration files, mail queue files, and data
files.  See the NON-SHARED FILES section below for a list
of per-instance files.

Before Postfix multi-instance support was implemented, the
executables, manpages, etc., have always been maintained
as part of the default Postfix instance.

With multi-instance support, we simply continue to do this.
Specifically, a Postfix instance will not check or update
shared files when that instance's config_directory value is
listed with the default main.cf file's multi_instance_directories
parameter.

The consequence of this approach is that the default Postfix
instance should be checked and updated before any other
instances.
.SH "MULTI-INSTANCE API SUMMARY"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Only the multi-instance manager implements support for the
multi_instance_enable configuration parameter. The
multi-instance manager will start only Postfix instances
whose main.cf file has "multi_instance_enable = yes". A
setting of "no" allows a Postfix instance to be tested by
hand.

The postfix(1) command operates on only one Postfix instance
when the -c option is specified, or when MAIL_CONFIG is
present in the process environment. This is necessary to
terminate recursion.

Otherwise, when the multi_instance_directories parameter
value is non-empty, the postfix(1) command executes the
command specified with the multi_instance_wrapper parameter,
instead of executing the commands in postfix-script.

The multi-instance manager skips commands such as "stop"
or "reload" that require a running Postfix instance, when
an instance does not have "multi_instance_enable = yes".
This avoids false error messages.

The multi-instance manager replaces a "start" command by
"check" when a Postfix instance's main.cf file does not
have "multi_instance_enable = yes". This substitution ensures
that problems will be reported even when the instance is
disabled.

No Postfix command or script will update or check shared
files when its config_directory value is listed in the
default main.cf's multi_instance_directories parameter
value.  Therefore, the default instance should be checked
and updated before any Postfix instances that depend on it.

Set-gid commands such as postdrop(1) and postqueue(1)
effectively append the multi_instance_directories parameter
value to the legacy alternate_config_directories parameter
value. The commands use this information to determine whether
a -c option or MAIL_CONFIG environment setting specifies a
legitimate value.

The legacy alternate_config_directories parameter remains
necessary for non-default Postfix instances that are running
different versions of Postfix, or that are not managed
together with the default Postfix instance.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP MAIL_CONFIG
When present, this forces the postfix(1) command to operate
only on the specified Postfix instance. This environment
variable is exported by the postfix(1) -c option, so that
postfix(1) commands in descendant processes will work
correctly.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
The text below provides only a parameter summary. See
postconf(5) for more details.
.IP "\fBmulti_instance_directories (empty)\fR"
An optional list of non-default Postfix configuration directories;
these directories belong to additional Postfix instances that share
the Postfix executable files and documentation with the default
Postfix instance, and that are started, stopped, etc., together
with the default Postfix instance.
.IP "\fBmulti_instance_wrapper (empty)\fR"
The pathname of a multi-instance manager command that the
\fBpostfix\fR(1) command invokes when the multi_instance_directories
parameter value is non-empty.
.IP "\fBmulti_instance_name (empty)\fR"
The optional instance name of this Postfix instance.
.IP "\fBmulti_instance_group (empty)\fR"
The optional instance group name of this Postfix instance.
.IP "\fBmulti_instance_enable (no)\fR"
Allow this Postfix instance to be started, stopped, etc., by a
multi-instance manager.
.SH "NON-SHARED FILES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
The default location of the Postfix main.cf and master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBdata_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
The directory with Postfix-writable data files (for example:
caches, pseudo-random numbers).
.IP "\fBqueue_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
The location of the Postfix top-level queue directory.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
postfix(1) Postfix control program
postmulti(1) full-blown multi-instance manager
$daemon_directory/postfix-wrapper simple multi-instance manager
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
The Secure Mailer license must be distributed with this
software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
