.TH SQLITE_TABLE 5 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
sqlite_table
\-
Postfix SQLite configuration
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
\fBpostmap -q "\fIstring\fB" sqlite:/etc/postfix/filename\fR

\fBpostmap -q - sqlite:/etc/postfix/\fIfilename\fR <\fIinputfile\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
The Postfix mail system uses optional tables for address
rewriting or mail routing. These tables are usually in
\fBdbm\fR or \fBdb\fR format.

Alternatively, lookup tables can be specified as SQLite databases.
In order to use SQLite lookups, define an SQLite source as a lookup
table in main.cf, for example:
.nf
    alias_maps = sqlite:/etc/sqlite-aliases.cf
.fi

The file /etc/postfix/sqlite-aliases.cf has the same format as
the Postfix main.cf file, and can specify the parameters
described below.
.SH "BACKWARDS COMPATIBILITY"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
For compatibility with other Postfix lookup tables, SQLite
parameters can also be defined in main.cf.  In order to do that,
specify as SQLite source a name that doesn't begin with a slash
or a dot.  The SQLite parameters will then be accessible as the
name you've given the source in its definition, an underscore,
and the name of the parameter.  For example, if the map is
specified as "sqlite:\fIsqlitename\fR", the parameter "query"
below would be defined in main.cf as "\fIsqlitename\fR_query".

Normally, the SQL query is specified via a single \fBquery\fR
parameter (described in more detail below).  When this
parameter is not specified in the map definition, Postfix
reverts to an older interface, with the SQL query constructed
from the \fBselect_field\fR, \fBtable\fR, \fBwhere_field\fR
and \fBadditional_conditions\fR parameters.  The old interface
will be gradually phased out. To migrate to the new interface
set:

.nf
    \fBquery\fR = SELECT [\fIselect_field\fR]
        FROM [\fItable\fR]
        WHERE [\fIwhere_field\fR] = '%s'
            [\fIadditional_conditions\fR]
.fi

Insert the value, not the name, of each legacy parameter. Note
that the \fBadditional_conditions\fR parameter is optional
and if not empty, will always start with \fBAND\fR.
.SH "LIST MEMBERSHIP"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
When using SQL to store lists such as $mynetworks,
$mydestination, $relay_domains, $local_recipient_maps,
etc., it is important to understand that the table must
store each list member as a separate key. The table lookup
verifies the *existence* of the key. See "Postfix lists
versus tables" in the DATABASE_README document for a
discussion.

Do NOT create tables that return the full list of domains
in $mydestination or $relay_domains etc., or IP addresses
in $mynetworks.

DO create tables with each matching item as a key and with
an arbitrary value. With SQL databases it is not uncommon to
return the key itself or a constant value.
.SH "SQLITE PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBdbpath\fR"
The SQLite database file location. Example:
.nf
    dbpath = customer_database
.fi
.IP "\fBquery\fR"
The SQL query template used to search the database, where \fB%s\fR
is a substitute for the address Postfix is trying to resolve,
e.g.
.nf
    query = SELECT replacement FROM aliases WHERE mailbox = '%s'
.fi

This parameter supports the following '%' expansions:
.RS
.IP "\fB\fB%%\fR\fR"
This is replaced by a literal '%' character.
.IP "\fB\fB%s\fR\fR"
This is replaced by the input key.
SQL quoting is used to make sure that the input key does not
add unexpected metacharacters.
.IP "\fB\fB%u\fR\fR"
When the input key is an address of the form user@domain, \fB%u\fR
is replaced by the SQL quoted local part of the address.
Otherwise, \fB%u\fR is replaced by the entire search string.
If the localpart is empty, the query is suppressed and returns
no results.
.IP "\fB\fB%d\fR\fR"
When the input key is an address of the form user@domain, \fB%d\fR
is replaced by the SQL quoted domain part of the address.
Otherwise, the query is suppressed and returns no results.
.IP "\fB\fB%[SUD]\fR\fR"
The upper-case equivalents of the above expansions behave in the
\fBquery\fR parameter identically to their lower-case counter-parts.
With the \fBresult_format\fR parameter (see below), they expand the
input key rather than the result value.
.IP "\fB\fB%[1-9]\fR\fR"
The patterns %1, %2, ... %9 are replaced by the corresponding
most significant component of the input key's domain. If the
input key is \fIuser@mail.example.com\fR, then %1 is \fBcom\fR,
%2 is \fBexample\fR and %3 is \fBmail\fR. If the input key is
unqualified or does not have enough domain components to satisfy
all the specified patterns, the query is suppressed and returns
no results.
.RE
.IP
The \fBdomain\fR parameter described below limits the input
keys to addresses in matching domains. When the \fBdomain\fR
parameter is non-empty, SQL queries for unqualified addresses
or addresses in non-matching domains are suppressed
and return no results.

This parameter is available with Postfix 2.2. In prior releases
the SQL query was built from the separate parameters:
\fBselect_field\fR, \fBtable\fR, \fBwhere_field\fR and
\fBadditional_conditions\fR. The mapping from the old parameters
to the equivalent query is:

.nf
    SELECT [\fBselect_field\fR]
    FROM [\fBtable\fR]
    WHERE [\fBwhere_field\fR] = '%s'
          [\fBadditional_conditions\fR]
.fi

The '%s' in the \fBWHERE\fR clause expands to the escaped search string.
With Postfix 2.2 these legacy parameters are used if the \fBquery\fR
parameter is not specified.

NOTE: DO NOT put quotes around the query parameter.
.IP "\fBresult_format (default: \fB%s\fR)\fR"
Format template applied to result attributes. Most commonly used
to append (or prepend) text to the result. This parameter supports
the following '%' expansions:
.RS
.IP "\fB\fB%%\fR\fR"
This is replaced by a literal '%' character.
.IP "\fB\fB%s\fR\fR"
This is replaced by the value of the result attribute. When
result is empty it is skipped.
.IP "\fB%u\fR
When the result attribute value is an address of the form
user@domain, \fB%u\fR is replaced by the local part of the
address. When the result has an empty localpart it is skipped.
.IP "\fB\fB%d\fR\fR"
When a result attribute value is an address of the form
user@domain, \fB%d\fR is replaced by the domain part of
the attribute value. When the result is unqualified it
is skipped.
.IP "\fB\fB%[SUD1-9]\fR\fB"
The upper-case and decimal digit expansions interpolate
the parts of the input key rather than the result. Their
behavior is identical to that described with \fBquery\fR,
and in fact because the input key is known in advance, queries
whose key does not contain all the information specified in
the result template are suppressed and return no results.
.RE
.IP
For example, using "result_format = smtp:[%s]" allows one
to use a mailHost attribute as the basis of a transport(5)
table. After applying the result format, multiple values
are concatenated as comma separated strings. The expansion_limit
and parameter explained below allows one to restrict the number
of values in the result, which is especially useful for maps that
must return at most one value.

The default value \fB%s\fR specifies that each result value should
be used as is.

This parameter is available with Postfix 2.2 and later.

NOTE: DO NOT put quotes around the result format!
.IP "\fBdomain (default: no domain list)\fR"
This is a list of domain names, paths to files, or
dictionaries. When specified, only fully qualified search
keys with a *non-empty* localpart and a matching domain
are eligible for lookup: 'user' lookups, bare domain lookups
and "@domain" lookups are not performed. This can significantly
reduce the query load on the SQLite server.
.nf
    domain = postfix.org, hash:/etc/postfix/searchdomains
.fi

It is best not to use SQL to store the domains eligible
for SQL lookups.

This parameter is available with Postfix 2.2 and later.

NOTE: DO NOT define this parameter for local(8) aliases,
because the input keys are always unqualified.
.IP "\fBexpansion_limit (default: 0)\fR"
A limit on the total number of result elements returned
(as a comma separated list) by a lookup against the map.
A setting of zero disables the limit. Lookups fail with a
temporary error if the limit is exceeded.  Setting the
limit to 1 ensures that lookups do not return multiple
values.
.SH "OBSOLETE QUERY INTERFACE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
This section describes an interface that is deprecated as
of Postfix 2.2. It is replaced by the more general \fBquery\fR
interface described above.  If the \fBquery\fR parameter
is defined, the legacy parameters described here ignored.
Please migrate to the new interface as the legacy interface
may be removed in a future release.

The following parameters can be used to fill in a
SELECT template statement of the form:

.nf
    SELECT [\fBselect_field\fR]
    FROM [\fBtable\fR]
    WHERE [\fBwhere_field\fR] = '%s'
          [\fBadditional_conditions\fR]
.fi

The specifier %s is replaced by the search string, and is
escaped so if it contains single quotes or other odd characters,
it will not cause a parse error, or worse, a security problem.
.IP "\fBselect_field\fR"
The SQL "select" parameter. Example:
.nf
    \fBselect_field\fR = forw_addr
.fi
.IP "\fBtable\fR"
The SQL "select .. from" table name. Example:
.nf
    \fBtable\fR = mxaliases
.fi
.IP "\fBwhere_field\fR
The SQL "select .. where" parameter. Example:
.nf
    \fBwhere_field\fR = alias
.fi
.IP "\fBadditional_conditions\fR
Additional conditions to the SQL query. Example:
.nf
    \fBadditional_conditions\fR = AND status = 'paid'
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
postmap(1), Postfix lookup table maintenance
postconf(5), configuration parameters
ldap_table(5), LDAP lookup tables
mysql_table(5), MySQL lookup tables
pgsql_table(5), PostgreSQL lookup tables
.SH "README FILES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Use "\fBpostconf readme_directory\fR" or
"\fBpostconf html_directory\fR" to locate this information.
.na
.nf
DATABASE_README, Postfix lookup table overview
SQLITE_README, Postfix SQLITE howto
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
The Secure Mailer license must be distributed with this software.
.SH "HISTORY"
.na
.nf
SQLite support was introduced with Postfix version 2.8.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Original implementation by:
Axel Steiner
