.Dd February 8, 2011
.Dt xpcservice.plist 5
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME
.Nm xpcservice.plist
.Nd XPC Service configuration keys and values
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This document describes the keys-value pairs which configure an XPC Service. 
An XPC Service is a process which implements the server-side of an 
.Nm XPC 
connection.
The service program is contained inside a Mac OS X bundle. 
The bundle contains an Info.plist.
The XPC Service configuration settings are specified by keys and values defined in a dictionary
included within the Info.plist.
.Sh OVERVIEW
An application has a namespace which maps a service name to a running instance of the service program.
The namespace is created dynamically and is unique to each application. 
The namespace is populated with the set of services embedded in the application bundle and embedded in the
frameworks used by the application. 
.Pp
System frameworks may have embedded XPC Services. 
Typically, a developer would not connect to this service directly. 
Instead, the developer would call an API function in the framework and that would contact the service. 
However, the name of XPC Service must be in the application's namespace so that the 
framework code can "see" and connect to the service. 
.Pp
XPC Services are "launched-on-demand". They are only started when an application creates a connection to the service
and sends a message to it. The service process can be terminated when it is inactive and has been idle for a 
a period of time.  The service process can be started again upon receipt of a new message or connection request. 
XPC Services should be state-less so that they can come and go as needed.
.Pp
The results of a connection request to an XPC Service from two different applications depends upon the type of the service. 
The service type controls the policy used to create a new instance of the service. 
For example, a new connection request from two different applications to an Application-type service in a framework 
will result in a new instance of the service being created for each application.
However, if two applications request the same User-type service, then only one instance of 
the service will be created for each user. 
.Pp
Services embedded in an application bundle will only be visible to the containing application and will be, by definition,
Applicaton-type services. A subsequent connection request from an application to a service 
will result in a new connection to an existing service. 
.Sh CF Bundle Keys
These top-level Info.plist keys are required to be defined in the Info.plist file:
.Pp
.Bl -ohang
.It Sy CFBundleIdentifier <string>
This key defines the name of the service; clients use this name to connect to the service. 
.It Sy CFBundlePackageType \(dqXPC!\(dq
This key identifies the bundle as being an XPC Service. 
.It Sy XPCService <dictionary>
This key defines a dictionary which contains the settings to configure the XPC Service. 
.El
.Sh XPCService Dictionary Keys
The XPC Service may be configured by setting these keys in the \fIXPCService\fP dictionary:
.Bl -ohang
.It Sy ServiceType <string> (default: "Application")
The type of the XPC Service specifies how the service is instantiated. The values are:
.Bl -bullet 
.It 
Application
.br
Each application will have a unique instance of this service.
.It 
User
.br
There is one instance of the service process created for each user.
.It 
System
.br
There is one instance of the service process for the whole system. 
System XPC Services are restricted to reside in system frameworks and must be owned by root. 
.\".It 
.\"Session
.\".br
.\"There is one instance of the service process for the audit session of the requesting application. 
.El
.It Sy RunLoopType <string> (default: dispatch_main)
The RunLoop type specifies which style of runloop will be started once xpc_main has finished initializing. The values are:
.Bl -bullet
.It
dispatch_main
.br
xpc_main will call dispatch_main().
.It
NSRunLoop
.br
xpc_main will call [[NSRunLoop currentRunLoop] run].
.El
.It Sy JoinExistingSession <bool> (default: False)
By default XPC Services are placed into their own unique audit session.  
If this key is true, then the service is placed into the session of the application requesting a connection to the service.
.It Sy EnvironmentVariables <dictionary> (default: none)
A dictionary containing environment variables (represented as key-value pairs) which are 
set in the environment of the service process.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.Xr plist 5
