.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 2001 Carnegie Mellon University.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. The name "Carnegie Mellon University" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For permission or any other legal
.\"    details, please contact  
.\"      Office of Technology Transfer
.\"      Carnegie Mellon University
.\"      5000 Forbes Avenue
.\"      Pittsburgh, PA  15213-3890
.\"      (412) 268-4387, fax: (412) 268-7395
.\"      tech-transfer@andrew.cmu.edu
.\"
.\" 4. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by Computing Services
.\"     at Carnegie Mellon University (http://www.cmu.edu/computing/)."
.\"
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN
.\" AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.TH sasl_auxprop_request 3 "10 July 2001" SASL "SASL man pages"
.SH NAME
sasl_auxprop_request \- Request Auxiliary Properties from SASL

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sasl/sasl.h>

.sp
.BI "int sasl_auxprop_request(sasl_conn_t " *conn ", "
.BI "		              const char ** " propnames ")" 

.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION

.B sasl_auxprop_request
will request that the SASL library obtain properties from any auxiliary
property plugins that might be installed (such as the user's home directory
from an LDAP server for example).  Such lookup occurs just after username
canonicalization is complete.  Therefore, the request should be made before
the call to sasl_server_start(3), but after the call to sasl_server_new(3).

.I conn
the sasl_conn_t for which the request is being made.

.I propnames
a NULL-terminated array of property names to request.  Note that this
array must persist until a call to sasl_dispose on the sasl_conn_t.

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Returns SASL_OK on success.  See sasl_errors(3) for meanings of other return
codes.

.SH "CONFORMING TO"
RFC 4422
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sasl(3), sasl_errors(3), sasl_auxprop(3), sasl_auxprop_getctx(3),
sasl_server_new(3), sasl_server_start(3)
