'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 1996-1997 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
'\"
'\" See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
'\" of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
'\" 
'\" RCS: @(#) $Id: IntObj.3,v 1.14.2.2 2009/11/27 14:53:54 dkf Exp $
'\" 
.\" The -*- nroff -*- definitions below are for supplemental macros used
.\" in Tcl/Tk manual entries.
.\"
.\" .AP type name in/out ?indent?
.\"	Start paragraph describing an argument to a library procedure.
.\"	type is type of argument (int, etc.), in/out is either "in", "out",
.\"	or "in/out" to describe whether procedure reads or modifies arg,
.\"	and indent is equivalent to second arg of .IP (shouldn't ever be
.\"	needed;  use .AS below instead)
.\"
.\" .AS ?type? ?name?
.\"	Give maximum sizes of arguments for setting tab stops.  Type and
.\"	name are examples of largest possible arguments that will be passed
.\"	to .AP later.  If args are omitted, default tab stops are used.
.\"
.\" .BS
.\"	Start box enclosure.  From here until next .BE, everything will be
.\"	enclosed in one large box.
.\"
.\" .BE
.\"	End of box enclosure.
.\"
.\" .CS
.\"	Begin code excerpt.
.\"
.\" .CE
.\"	End code excerpt.
.\"
.\" .VS ?version? ?br?
.\"	Begin vertical sidebar, for use in marking newly-changed parts
.\"	of man pages.  The first argument is ignored and used for recording
.\"	the version when the .VS was added, so that the sidebars can be
.\"	found and removed when they reach a certain age.  If another argument
.\"	is present, then a line break is forced before starting the sidebar.
.\"
.\" .VE
.\"	End of vertical sidebar.
.\"
.\" .DS
.\"	Begin an indented unfilled display.
.\"
.\" .DE
.\"	End of indented unfilled display.
.\"
.\" .SO ?manpage?
.\"	Start of list of standard options for a Tk widget. The manpage
.\"	argument defines where to look up the standard options; if
.\"	omitted, defaults to "options". The options follow on successive
.\"	lines, in three columns separated by tabs.
.\"
.\" .SE
.\"	End of list of standard options for a Tk widget.
.\"
.\" .OP cmdName dbName dbClass
.\"	Start of description of a specific option.  cmdName gives the
.\"	option's name as specified in the class command, dbName gives
.\"	the option's name in the option database, and dbClass gives
.\"	the option's class in the option database.
.\"
.\" .UL arg1 arg2
.\"	Print arg1 underlined, then print arg2 normally.
.\"
.\" .QW arg1 ?arg2?
.\"	Print arg1 in quotes, then arg2 normally (for trailing punctuation).
.\"
.\" .PQ arg1 ?arg2?
.\"	Print an open parenthesis, arg1 in quotes, then arg2 normally
.\"	(for trailing punctuation) and then a closing parenthesis.
.\"
.\" RCS: @(#) $Id: man.macros,v 1.9 2008/01/29 15:32:33 dkf Exp $
.\"
.\"	# Set up traps and other miscellaneous stuff for Tcl/Tk man pages.
.if t .wh -1.3i ^B
.nr ^l \n(.l
.ad b
.\"	# Start an argument description
.de AP
.ie !"\\$4"" .TP \\$4
.el \{\
.   ie !"\\$2"" .TP \\n()Cu
.   el          .TP 15
.\}
.ta \\n()Au \\n()Bu
.ie !"\\$3"" \{\
\&\\$1 \\fI\\$2\\fP (\\$3)
.\".b
.\}
.el \{\
.br
.ie !"\\$2"" \{\
\&\\$1	\\fI\\$2\\fP
.\}
.el \{\
\&\\fI\\$1\\fP
.\}
.\}
..
.\"	# define tabbing values for .AP
.de AS
.nr )A 10n
.if !"\\$1"" .nr )A \\w'\\$1'u+3n
.nr )B \\n()Au+15n
.\"
.if !"\\$2"" .nr )B \\w'\\$2'u+\\n()Au+3n
.nr )C \\n()Bu+\\w'(in/out)'u+2n
..
.AS Tcl_Interp Tcl_CreateInterp in/out
.\"	# BS - start boxed text
.\"	# ^y = starting y location
.\"	# ^b = 1
.de BS
.br
.mk ^y
.nr ^b 1u
.if n .nf
.if n .ti 0
.if n \l'\\n(.lu\(ul'
.if n .fi
..
.\"	# BE - end boxed text (draw box now)
.de BE
.nf
.ti 0
.mk ^t
.ie n \l'\\n(^lu\(ul'
.el \{\
.\"	Draw four-sided box normally, but don't draw top of
.\"	box if the box started on an earlier page.
.ie !\\n(^b-1 \{\
\h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\l'\\n(^lu+3n\(ul'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\l'|0u-1.5n\(ul'
.\}
.el \}\
\h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\h'\\n(^lu+3n'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\l'|0u-1.5n\(ul'
.\}
.\}
.fi
.br
.nr ^b 0
..
.\"	# VS - start vertical sidebar
.\"	# ^Y = starting y location
.\"	# ^v = 1 (for troff;  for nroff this doesn't matter)
.de VS
.if !"\\$2"" .br
.mk ^Y
.ie n 'mc \s12\(br\s0
.el .nr ^v 1u
..
.\"	# VE - end of vertical sidebar
.de VE
.ie n 'mc
.el \{\
.ev 2
.nf
.ti 0
.mk ^t
\h'|\\n(^lu+3n'\L'|\\n(^Yu-1v\(bv'\v'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^Yu'\h'-|\\n(^lu+3n'
.sp -1
.fi
.ev
.\}
.nr ^v 0
..
.\"	# Special macro to handle page bottom:  finish off current
.\"	# box/sidebar if in box/sidebar mode, then invoked standard
.\"	# page bottom macro.
.de ^B
.ev 2
'ti 0
'nf
.mk ^t
.if \\n(^b \{\
.\"	Draw three-sided box if this is the box's first page,
.\"	draw two sides but no top otherwise.
.ie !\\n(^b-1 \h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\l'\\n(^lu+3n\(ul'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\h'|0u'\c
.el \h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\h'\\n(^lu+3n'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\h'|0u'\c
.\}
.if \\n(^v \{\
.nr ^x \\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^Yu
\kx\h'-\\nxu'\h'|\\n(^lu+3n'\ky\L'-\\n(^xu'\v'\\n(^xu'\h'|0u'\c
.\}
.bp
'fi
.ev
.if \\n(^b \{\
.mk ^y
.nr ^b 2
.\}
.if \\n(^v \{\
.mk ^Y
.\}
..
.\"	# DS - begin display
.de DS
.RS
.nf
.sp
..
.\"	# DE - end display
.de DE
.fi
.RE
.sp
..
.\"	# SO - start of list of standard options
.de SO
'ie '\\$1'' .ds So \\fBoptions\\fR
'el .ds So \\fB\\$1\\fR
.SH "STANDARD OPTIONS"
.LP
.nf
.ta 5.5c 11c
.ft B
..
.\"	# SE - end of list of standard options
.de SE
.fi
.ft R
.LP
See the \\*(So manual entry for details on the standard options.
..
.\"	# OP - start of full description for a single option
.de OP
.LP
.nf
.ta 4c
Command-Line Name:	\\fB\\$1\\fR
Database Name:	\\fB\\$2\\fR
Database Class:	\\fB\\$3\\fR
.fi
.IP
..
.\"	# CS - begin code excerpt
.de CS
.RS
.nf
.ta .25i .5i .75i 1i
..
.\"	# CE - end code excerpt
.de CE
.fi
.RE
..
.\"	# UL - underline word
.de UL
\\$1\l'|0\(ul'\\$2
..
.\"	# QW - apply quotation marks to word
.de QW
.ie '\\*(lq'"' ``\\$1''\\$2
.\"" fix emacs highlighting
.el \\*(lq\\$1\\*(rq\\$2
..
.\"	# PQ - apply parens and quotation marks to word
.de PQ
.ie '\\*(lq'"' (``\\$1''\\$2)\\$3
.\"" fix emacs highlighting
.el (\\*(lq\\$1\\*(rq\\$2)\\$3
..
.\"	# QR - quoted range
.de QR
.ie '\\*(lq'"' ``\\$1''\\-``\\$2''\\$3
.\"" fix emacs highlighting
.el \\*(lq\\$1\\*(rq\\-\\*(lq\\$2\\*(rq\\$3
..
.\"	# MT - "empty" string
.de MT
.QW ""
..
.TH Tcl_IntObj 3 8.5 Tcl "Tcl Library Procedures"
.BS
.SH NAME
Tcl_NewIntObj, Tcl_NewLongObj, Tcl_NewWideIntObj, Tcl_SetIntObj, Tcl_SetLongObj, Tcl_SetWideIntObj, Tcl_GetIntFromObj, Tcl_GetLongFromObj, Tcl_GetWideIntFromObj, Tcl_NewBignumObj, Tcl_SetBignumObj, Tcl_GetBignumFromObj, Tcl_TakeBignumFromObj \- manipulate Tcl objects as integer values
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <tcl.h>\fR
.sp
Tcl_Obj *
\fBTcl_NewIntObj\fR(\fIintValue\fR)
.sp
Tcl_Obj *
\fBTcl_NewLongObj\fR(\fIlongValue\fR)
.sp
Tcl_Obj *
\fBTcl_NewWideIntObj\fR(\fIwideValue\fR)
.sp
\fBTcl_SetIntObj\fR(\fIobjPtr, intValue\fR)
.sp
\fBTcl_SetLongObj\fR(\fIobjPtr, longValue\fR)
.sp
\fBTcl_SetWideIntObj\fR(\fIobjPtr, wideValue\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTcl_GetIntFromObj\fR(\fIinterp, objPtr, intPtr\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTcl_GetLongFromObj\fR(\fIinterp, objPtr, longPtr\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTcl_GetWideIntFromObj\fR(\fIinterp, objPtr, widePtr\fR)
.sp
.sp
.VS 8.5
\fB#include <tclTomMath.h>\fR
.sp
Tcl_Obj *
\fBTcl_NewBignumObj\fR(\fIbigValue\fR)
.sp
\fBTcl_SetBignumObj\fR(\fIobjPtr, bigValue\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTcl_GetBignumFromObj\fR(\fIinterp, objPtr, bigValue\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTcl_TakeBignumFromObj\fR(\fIinterp, objPtr, bigValue\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTcl_InitBignumFromDouble\fR(\fIinterp, doubleValue, bigValue\fR)
.VE 8.5
.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS Tcl_WideInt doubleValue in/out
.AP int intValue in
Integer value used to initialize or set a Tcl object.
.AP long longValue in
Long integer value used to initialize or set a Tcl object.
.AP Tcl_WideInt wideValue in
Wide integer value used to initialize or set a Tcl object.
.AP Tcl_Obj *objPtr in/out
For \fBTcl_SetIntObj\fR, \fBTcl_SetLongObj\fR, \fBTcl_SetWideIntObj\fR,
and \fBTcl_SetBignumObj\fR, this points to the object in which to store an
integral value.  For \fBTcl_GetIntFromObj\fR, \fBTcl_GetLongFromObj\fR,
\fBTcl_GetWideIntFromObj\fR, \fBTcl_GetBignumFromObj\fR, and
\fBTcl_TakeBignumFromObj\fR, this refers to the object from which
to retrieve an integral value.
.AP Tcl_Interp *interp in/out
When non-NULL, an error message is left here when integral value
retrieval fails.
.AP int *intPtr out
Points to place to store the integer value retrieved from \fIobjPtr\fR.
.AP long *longPtr out
Points to place to store the long integer value retrieved from \fIobjPtr\fR.
.AP Tcl_WideInt *widePtr out
Points to place to store the wide integer value retrieved from \fIobjPtr\fR.
.AP mp_int *bigValue in/out
.VS 8.5
Points to a multi-precision integer structure declared by the LibTomMath
library.
.VE 8.5
.AP double doubleValue in
.VS 8.5
Double value from which the integer part is determined and
used to initialize a multi-precision integer value.
.VE 8.5
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.VS 8.5
These procedures are used to create, modify, and read Tcl objects
that hold integral values.  
.PP
The different routines exist to accommodate different integral types in C
with which values might be exchanged.  The C integral types for which Tcl
provides value exchange routines are \fBint\fR, \fBlong int\fR,
\fBTcl_WideInt\fR, and \fBmp_int\fR.  The \fBint\fR and \fBlong int\fR types
are provided by the C language standard.  The \fBTcl_WideInt\fR type is a
typedef defined to be whatever signed integral type covers at least the
64-bit integer range (-9223372036854775808 to 9223372036854775807).  Depending
on the platform and the C compiler, the actual type might be
\fBlong int\fR, \fBlong long int\fR, \fBint64\fR, or something else.
The \fBmp_int\fR type is a multiple-precision integer type defined
by the LibTomMath multiple-precision integer library.  
.PP
The \fBTcl_NewIntObj\fR, \fBTcl_NewLongObj\fR, \fBTcl_NewWideIntObj\fR,
and \fBTcl_NewBignumObj\fR routines each create and return a new
Tcl object initialized to the integral value of the argument.  The
returned Tcl object is unshared.
.PP
The \fBTcl_SetIntObj\fR, \fBTcl_SetLongObj\fR, \fBTcl_SetWideIntObj\fR,
and \fBTcl_SetBignumObj\fR routines each set the value of an existing
Tcl object pointed to by \fIobjPtr\fR to the integral value provided
by the other argument.  The \fIobjPtr\fR argument must point to an
unshared Tcl object.  Any attempt to set the value of a shared Tcl object
violates Tcl's copy-on-write policy.  Any existing string representation
or internal representation in the unshared Tcl object will be freed
as a consequence of setting the new value.
.PP
The \fBTcl_GetIntFromObj\fR, \fBTcl_GetLongFromObj\fR,
\fBTcl_GetWideIntFromObj\fR, \fBTcl_GetBignumFromObj\fR, and
\fBTcl_TakeBignumFromObj\fR routines attempt to retrieve an integral
value of the appropriate type from the Tcl object \fIobjPtr\fR.  If the
attempt succeeds, then \fBTCL_OK\fR is returned, and the value is
written to the storage provided by the caller.  The attempt might
fail if \fIobjPtr\fR does not hold an integral value, or if the
value exceeds the range of the target type.  If the attempt fails,
then \fBTCL_ERROR\fR is returned, and if \fIinterp\fR is non-NULL,
an error message is left in \fIinterp\fR.  The \fBTcl_ObjType\fR
of \fIobjPtr\fR may be changed to make subsequent calls to the
same routine more efficient. Unlike the other functions,
\fBTcl_TakeBignumFromObj\fR may set the content of the Tcl object
\fIobjPtr\fR to an empty string in the process of retrieving the
multiple-precision integer value.
.PP
The choice between \fBTcl_GetBignumFromObj\fR and
\fBTcl_TakeBignumFromObj\fR is governed by how the caller will
continue to use \fIobjPtr\fR.  If after the \fBmp_int\fR value
is retrieved from \fIobjPtr\fR, the caller will make no more
use of \fIobjPtr\fR, then using \fBTcl_TakeBignumFromObj\fR
permits Tcl to detect when an unshared \fIobjPtr\fR permits the
value to be moved instead of copied, which should be more efficient.
If anything later in the caller requires
\fIobjPtr\fR to continue to hold the same value, then
\fBTcl_GetBignumFromObj\fR must be chosen.
.PP
The \fBTcl_InitBignumFromDouble\fR routine is a utility procedure
that extracts the integer part of \fIdoubleValue\fR and stores that
integer value in the \fBmp_int\fR value \fIbigValue\fR.
.VE 8.5
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Tcl_NewObj, Tcl_DecrRefCount, Tcl_IncrRefCount, Tcl_GetObjResult
.SH KEYWORDS
integer, integer object, integer type, internal representation, object, object type, string representation
