'\" e  
'\"macro stdmacro
.ds Vn Version 1.2
.ds Dt 6 March 1997
.ds Re Release 1.2.0
.ds Dp May 22 14:54
.ds Dm 7 May 22 14:
.ds Xs 36748     4
.TH GLUSPHERE 3G
.SH NAME
.B "gluSphere
\- draw a sphere

.SH C SPECIFICATION
void \f3gluSphere\fP(
GLUquadric* \fIquad\fP,
.nf
.ta \w'\f3void \fPgluSphere( 'u
	GLdouble \fIradius\fP,
	GLint \fIslices\fP,
	GLint \fIstacks\fP )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP \w'\fIradius\fP\ \ 'u 
\f2quad\fP
Specifies the quadrics object (created with \%\f3gluNewQuadric\fP).
.TP
\f2radius\fP
Specifies the radius of the sphere.
.TP
\f2slices\fP
Specifies the number of subdivisions around the \f2z\fP axis 
(similar to lines of longitude).
.TP
\f2stacks\fP
Specifies the number of subdivisions along the \f2z\fP axis
(similar to lines of latitude).
.SH DESCRIPTION
\%\f3gluSphere\fP draws a sphere of the given radius centered around the origin. The
sphere is subdivided around the \f2z\fP axis into slices and along the 
\f2z\fP axis 
into stacks (similar to lines of longitude and latitude).
.P
If the orientation is set to \%\f3GLU_OUTSIDE\fP 
(with \%\f3gluQuadricOrientation\fP), then any normals generated 
point away from the center of the sphere.
Otherwise, they point toward the center of the sphere.
.P
If texturing is turned on (with \%\f3gluQuadricTexture\fP), then texture 
coordinates are 
generated so that \f2t\fP ranges from 0.0 at z =-radius to 1.0 at 
z = radius (\f2t\fP increases linearly along longitudinal
lines),
and \f2s\fP ranges from 0.0 at the +\f2y\fP axis, to 0.25 at the 
+\f2x\fP axis, 
to 0.5 at the \-\f2y\fP axis, to 0.75 at the \-\f2x\fP axis, and back to 1.0 
at the +\f2y\fP axis.
.SH SEE ALSO
\%\f3gluCylinder\fP, \%\f3gluDisk\fP, \%\f3gluNewQuadric\fP, 
\%\f3gluPartialDisk\fP, \%\f3gluQuadricOrientation\fP,
\%\f3gluQuadricTexture\fP
