'\" e  
'\"macro stdmacro
.ds Vn Version 1.2
.ds Dt 6 March 1997
.ds Re Release 1.2.0
.ds Dp May 22 14:54
.ds Dm 6 May 22 14:
.ds Xs 63442     4
.TH GLUUNPROJECT 3G
.SH NAME
.B "gluUnProject
\- map window coordinates to object coordinates

.SH C SPECIFICATION
GLint \f3gluUnProject\fP(
GLdouble \fIwinX\fP,
.nf
.ta \w'\f3GLint \fPgluUnProject( 'u
	GLdouble \fIwinY\fP,
	GLdouble \fIwinZ\fP,
	const GLdouble \fI*model\fP,
	const GLdouble \fI*proj\fP,
	const GLint \fI*view\fP,
	GLdouble* \fIobjX\fP,
	GLdouble* \fIobjY\fP,
	GLdouble* \fIobjZ\fP )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP \w'\f2winX\fP\ \f2winY\fP\ \f2winZ\fP\ \ 'u 
\f2winX\fP, \f2winY\fP, \f2winZ\fP
Specify the window coordinates to be mapped.
.TP
\f2model\fP
Specifies the modelview matrix (as from a \f3glGetDoublev\fP call).
.TP
\f2proj\fP
Specifies the projection matrix (as from a \f3glGetDoublev\fP call).
.TP
\f2view\fP
Specifies the viewport (as from a \f3glGetIntegerv\fP call).
.TP
\f2objX\fP, \f2objY\fP, \f2objZ\fP
Returns the computed object coordinates.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\%\f3gluUnProject\fP maps the specified window coordinates into object 
coordinates using \f2model\fP, \f2proj\fP, and \f2view\fP.
The result is stored in \f2objX\fP, \f2objY\fP, and \f2objZ\fP. A return value of 
\%\f3GL_TRUE\fP indicates success; a return value of \%\f3GL_FALSE\fP
indicates failure.
.P
To compute the coordinates (\f2objX\fP, \f2objY\fP, and \f2objZ\fP),
\%\f3gluUnProject\fP multiplies the normalized device coordinates by the inverse of
\f2model\fP*\f2proj\fP as follows:

.Bd -literal

                         2(winX - view[0])
                         -----------------  - 1
                              view[2]

    objX                 2(winY - view[1])
    objY   =  INV(PM)    -----------------  - 1
    objZ                      view[3]
     W
                              2(winZ)       - 1

                                 1
                                 
.Ed

INV() denotes matrix inversion. 
W is an unused variable, included for consistent matrix notation.
.SH SEE ALSO
\f3glGet\fP, \%\f3gluProject\fP
