'\" t
.\" @(#)policytool.1 1.9 01/07/17 SMI;
.\" Copyright 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc. Tous droits réservés.
.\" 
.TH policytool 1 "24 June 2004"
.SH NAME
policytool \- policy file creation and management tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B policytool
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "policy file creation and  management tool" "" "policy file creation and management tool \(em \fLpolicytool\fP"
.IX "policytool" "" "\fLpolicytool\fP \(em policy file creation and management tool"
The policy for a Java runtime (specifying which permissions are
available for code from various sources, when executing as various
principals) is represented by a Policy object. The default Policy
implementation obtains its information from static ASCII policy
configuration files.
.LP
A policy file can be composed via a simple text editor, or via the
graphical Policy Tool utility described here. Using the
Policy Tool saves typing and eliminates the need for you to know the
required policy file syntax thus reducing errors. 
.LP
.SS Starting Policy Tool
.LP
To start Policy Tool, simply type the following at the
command line. 
.LP
.RS
.ft 3
.nf
policytool
.fi
.ft 1
.RE
.TP
This brings up the "Policy Tool" window.
.LP
Whenever Policy Tool is started, it tries to fill in this
window with policy information from what is
sometimes referred to as the "user policy file". The user
policy file is by default a file named .java.policy in
your home directory. If Policy Tool cannot find the user
policy file, it reports the situation and displays a blank
"Policy Tool" window (that is, a window with headings
and buttons but no data in it).
.LP
You can then proceed to either open whatever policy file
you want to work on or create a new policy file, by
adding policy entries, optionally specifying a keystore,
and saving the file). 
.LP
The first time you run the Policy Tool, there will not
be a user policy file (unless you created one manually). 
.SS Creating a new Policy File
.LP
To create a new policy file, start by simply selecting the
New command from the File menu. This will close the
currently open policy file (if any, after first prompting
you to save it if needed) and bring up a new policy tool
window, that is, a window with headings and buttons
but no data in it.
.LP
Please Note: this is not necessary the first time you run
the Policy Tool. Since the tool tries to open the user policy
file and one doesn't exist yet (unless it was created
manually), the tool will bring up a window without any
data in it.
.LP
Once you have a new policy tool window, you can then
create the policy entries, and specify the keystore (if any
of the policy entries specify a keystore alias). At any
point, you can save the policy file.
.SS Opening a Different Policy File
.LP
To work on a different policy file than the one currently
being worked on (if any), use the Open command in the
File menu. 
.LP
This will close the currently open policy file (if any, after
first prompting you to save it if needed) and will present
you with an Open dialog, which you can use to navigate
the directory structure until you get to the directory
containing the policy file you want to work on. Select
that file, then select the OK button. 
.LP
The "Policy Tool" window will then be filled in with
information from the policy file, including the policy file
name, the keystore URL (if any), and the CodeBase,
SignedBy and Principal parts of each policy entry in the
policy file. 
.SS Specifying the Keystore
.LP
To specify the keystore containing the key information
for the aliases specified in the SignedBy parts of policy
entries, select the Change Keystore command in the
Edit menu.
.LP
This brings up a dialog box in which you specify the new
keystore URL and optionally the keystore type.
.LP
As an example, to specify the keystore named
"mykeystore" in the /tests/ directory, type the
following file: URL into the text box labeled "New
KeyStore URL".
.LP
.RS
.ft 3
.nf
file:/tests/mykeystore
.fi
.ft 1
.RE
.LP
To also specify that the keystore type is "JKS" (the
proprietary keystore type supported by Sun
Microsystems), type the following into the text box
labeled "New KeyStore Type".
.LP
.RS
.ft 3
.nf
JKS
.fi
.ft 1
.RE
.LP
When you are done specifying the keystore URL and type (if
any), select OK (or you can select Cancel to cancel
the operation). If you didn't cancel, the text box labeled
"Keystore:" is now filled in with the keystore URL and
type.
.SS Adding a New Policy Entry
.LP
To add a new policy entry, select the Add Policy Entry
button in the main "Policy Tool" window. This brings up a 
"Policy Entry" dialog box. 
.LP
Using this dialog box, you specify
.TP
\(bu 
an optional CodeBase entry indicating the URL
location where the code originates from. For
example, to indicate code from the local
/JavaSoft/TESTS/ directory, type the following
file URL into the CodeBase text box:
.LP
.RS
.ft 3
.nf
file:/JavaSoft/TESTS
.fi
.ft 1
.RE
.TP
\(bu 
an optional SignedBy entry indicating the alias
name from the keystore used to reference the
signer whose private key was used to sign the
code. For example, to indicate the alias named
"duke", simply type the following into the
SignedBy text box:
.LP
.RS
.ft 3
.nf
duke
.fi
.ft 1
.RE
.TP
\(bu 
an optional Principals entry indicating the list
of principals that the code has to be executed as
in order for the permission(s) to be granted. See
Adding a New Principal.
.TP
\(bu 
one or more permission entries indicating
which permissions are granted to the code from
the source indicated by the CodeBase and
SignedBy values (or to any code if no such values
are specified) when running as the specified
principals in the Principals list. See Adding a
New Permission.
.LP
.SS Editing a Policy Entry
.LP
To edit an existing policy entry, select the line for that
entry in the main "Policy Tool" window, then select the
Edit Policy Entry button. Alternatively, you can
simply double-click the line for that entry.
.LP
This brings up the same type of "Policy Entry" dialog box
as appears when you are adding a new policy entry,
except in this case the dialog box is filled in with the
existing policy entry information. To change the
information, simply retype it (for the CodeBase and
SignedBy values) or use the buttons (for the
Principals and Permissions values). 
.LP
When you are done, select the Done button (or Cancel
to cancel).
.SS Removing a Policy Entry
.LP
To delete a policy entry from the policy file, select the
line for that entry in the main "Policy Tool" window,
then select the Remove Policy Entry button.
.LP
The complete policy entry is displayed, and you can then
either select OK to remove the entry, or Cancel to keep
it. 
.SS Saving the Policy File
.LP
To save changes to an existing policy file, simply select
the Save command in the File menu.
.LP
To save a new policy file you've been creating, or to copy
an existing policy file to a new policy file with a different
name, select the Save As command from the File
menu. This brings up the Save As dialog box.
.LP
Navigate the directory structure to get to the directory in
which you want to save the policy file. Type the desired
file name, then select the OK button. The policy file is
now saved, and its name and path are shown in the text
box labeled "Policy File:"
.SS Exiting the Policy Tool
.LP
To exit Policy Tool, select the Exit command from the
File menu.
.SS Viewing the Warning Log
.LP
If Policy Tool ever reports that warnings have been
stored in the Warning Log, you can view the log by
selecting the View Warning Log command in the
Edit menu.
.LP
For example, if you have a policy file with a Keystore
URL specifying a keystore that doesn't yet exist, you will
get such a warning at various times, e.g., when you
open the file. You can continue to work on the policy file
even if warnings exist.
.SH SEE ALSO
http://rhea.sfbay:91/j2se/1.5.0/docs/guide/security/permissions.html
.BR
http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.5/docs/tooldocs/solaris/policytool.html
.BR
http://rhea.sfbay:91/j2se/1.5.0/docs/tooldocs/solaris/keytool.html
