'\" t
.\" @(#)servertool.1 1.20 01/03/10 SMI;
.\" Copyright 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc. Tous droits riservis.
.\" 
.TH servertool 1 "10 March 2001"
.SH NAME
servertool - The Java(TM) IDL Server Tool
.LP
.B servertool
provides an ease-of-use interface for application
programmers to register, unregister, startup and shutdown
a server.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B servertool
.BI \-ORBInitialPort " nameServerPort" 
[ 
.I options 
]
.LP
The command-line tool displays with
a 
.B servertool > 
prompt. Enter commands at the 
.B servertool > 
prompt. 
.LP
The 
.BI \-ORBInitialPort " nameServerPort"
option is required. 
The value for 
.I nameServerPort 
must
specify the port on which orbd is running and 
listening for incoming requests.
You must become root to start a process on 
a port under 1024. For this reason, we
recommend that you use a port number greater than 
or equal to 1024 for the nameServerPort. 
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.BR servertool 
provides the
command-line interface for the application programmers to
register, unregister, startup, and shutdown a server. 
Other commands are provided to
obtain various statistical information about the server. 
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-ORBInitialHost " nameServerHost"
Specifies the host machine on which the name server 
is running and listening for incoming
requests. The nameServerHost defaults to localhost 
if this option is not specified. If orbd
and servertool are running on different machines, 
you must specify the name or IP
address of the host on which orbd is running. 
.TP
.BI \-J option
Pass 
.I option 
to the Java virtual machine, where 
option is one of the options described on
the reference page for the java application launcher. 
For example, \f3\-J-Xms48m\fP sets the
startup memory to 48 megabytes. It is a common 
convention for \f3\-J\fP to pass options to the
underlying virtual machine. 
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B register
.BI \-server " serverClassName"
.BI \-classpath " classpathToServer "
[ 
.BI \-applicationName " alternateServerName"
.BI \-args " argsToServer"
.BI \-vmargs " flagsToBePassedToJavaVM"
]
.RS
.LP
Register a new server with the Object Request Broker Daemon (ORBD).
If the server is not already registered, it is registered and
activated.
This command causes an
install method to be invoked in the main class 
of the server identified by the \f3\-server\fP
option. The install method must be public static 
void install(org.omg.CORBA.ORB).
The install method is optional and enables the 
developer to provide their own server
installation behavior (for example, creating database schema). 
.RE
.TP
.B unregister 
.BI \-serverid " serverId"
| 
.BI \-applicationName " name"
.RS
.LP
Unregister a server from the ORBD
by using either its server id or its application name.
This command causes an uninstall method to be invoked 
in the main class of the server
identified by the \f3\-server\fP option. The uninstall method 
must be public static void
uninstall(org.omg.CORBA.ORB). The uninstall method 
is optional and enables the
developer to provide their own server uninstall 
behavior (for example, undoing the
behavior of the install method). 
.RE
.TP
.B getserverid 
.BI \-applicationName " applicationName"
.LP
.RS
Return the server id that corresponds with an application.
.RE
.TP
.B list 
.br
List all information about all persistent servers registered with the
ORBD. 
.TP
.B listappnames
List the application names for all server currently registered with 
the ORBD.
.TP
.B listactive
List all information about all persistent servers 
that have been launched by the
ORBD and are currently running. 
.TP
.B locate    
.PD 0
.LP
.RS
.BI \-serverid " serverId" 
| 
.BI \-applicationName " applicationName"
[
.BI \-endpointType " endpointType" 
]
.PD
.LP
Locate the endpoints (ports) of a specific type for all ORBs
created by a registered server. If a server is not already
running, it is activated. If an endpoint type is not
specified, then the plain/non-protected endpoint
associated with each ORB in a server is returned. 
.RE
.TP
.B locateperorb
.BI \-serverid " serverId" 
| 
.BI \-applicationName " applicationName" 
[
.BI \-orbid " ORB_name" 
]
.RS
.LP
Locate all the endpoints (ports) registered by a specific
ORB of registered server. If a server is not already running,
then it is activated. If an 
.BR orbid 
is not specified, the
default value of "" is assigned to the 
.BR orbid . 
If any ORBs
are created with an 
.BR orbid 
of empty string, all ports
registered by it are returned. 
.RE
.TP
.B orblist 
.BI \-serverid " serverId" 
| 
.BI \-applicationName " applicationName"
]
.RS
.LP
Lists the ORBId of the ORBs defined on a server. 
An ORBId is the string name for the ORB
created by the server. If the server is not 
already running, it is activated. 
.RE
.TP
.B shutdown 
.BI \-serverid " serverId" 
| 
.BI \-applicationName " applicationName" 
]
.RS
.LP
Shutdown an  active server that is registered with ORBD. 
During execution of
this command, the 
.BR shutdown() 
method defined in the
the class specified by either the \f3\-serverid\fP
or \f3\-applicationName\fP parameter is also invoked to shutdown
the server process appropriately. 
.RE
.TP
.B startup 
.BI \-serverid " serverId" 
| 
.BI \-applicationName " applicationName" 
.RS
.LP
Startup or activate a server that is registered with ORBD. 
If the server is not
running, this command launches the server. If the server
is already running, an error message is returned to the
user. 
.RE
.TP
.B help
.br
List all the commands available to the server through the
server tool. 
.TP
.B quit 
.br
Exit the server tool.
.RE
.SS SEE ALSO
.BR orbd
