'\" t
.\" @(#)wsgen.1
.\" Copyright 2006 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH wsgen 1 "07 Aug 2006"
.SH NAME
wsgen - JAX-WS 2.0 
.PP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.RI "wsgen [" options "] " SEI
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f3wsgen\fR tool generates JAX-WS portable artifacts used in
JAX-WS web services. The tool reads a web service endpoint implementation
class (SEI) and generates all the required artifacts for web service
deployment, and invocation.
.br
.SH OPTIONS
.br
.TP
.BI -classpath " path"
Specify where to find input class files
.TP
.BI -cp " path"
Same as -classpath
.TP
.BI -d " directory"
Specify where to place generated output files
.TP
.BI -extension
allow vendor extensions (functionality not specified
by the specification).  Use of extensions may result in applications 
that are not portable or may not interoperate with other implementations.
.TP
.BI -help
Display help
.TP
.BI -keep
Keep generated files
.TP
.BI -r " directory"
Used only in conjunction with the \f3-wsdl\fR option. Specify
where to place generated resource files such as WSDLs.
.TP
.BI -s " directory"
Specify where to place generated source files
.TP
.BI -verbose
Output messages about what the compiler is doing
.TP
.BI -version
Print version information.  Use of this option will ONLY
print version information.  Normal processing will not occur.
.TP
.BI -wsdl\fR[: protocol \fR]
By default \f3wsgen\fR does not generate a WSDL
file. This flag is optional and will cause \f3wsgen\fR to generate
a WSDL file and is usually only used so that the developer can look at
the WSDL before the endpoint is deploy. The \f2protocol\fR is
optional and is used to specify what protocol should be used in the
\f3wsdl:binding\fR. Valid protocols include: \f3soap1.1\fR
and \f3Xsoap1.2\fR. The default is \f3soap1.1\fR.
\f3Xsoap1.2\fR is not standard and can only be used in conjunction
with the \f3-extension\fR option.
.TP
.BI -servicename " name"
Used only in conjunction with the \f3-wsdl\fR option. Used to specify
a particular \f3wsdl:service\fR name to be generated in the WSDL.  Example, 
\f3-servicename\fR "{http://mynamespace/}MyService"
.TP
.BI -portname " name"
Used only in conjunction with the \f3-wsdl\fR option. Used to specify
a particular \f3wsdl:port\fR name to be generated in the WSDL.  Example, 
\f3-portname\fR "{http://mynamespace/}MyPort"
.br
.SH Example
.br
.B wsgen -cp . -wsdl fromjava.server.AddNumbersImpl
.LP
This generates the portable JAX-WS artifacts that are required for Web Service deployment.
It also generates the WSDL for the Web Service with the \f3-wsdl\fR option.
