.\" Copyright (c) 2010 Kungliga Tekniska Högskolan
.\" (Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, Sweden).
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2010 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. Neither the name of the Institute nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE INSTITUTE AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE INSTITUTE OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $Id$
.\"
.Dd Sep  30, 2011
.Dt heimdal_debug 5
.Os HEIMDAL
.Sh NAME
.Nm heimdal_debug
.Nd how to turn on/off debugging for Kerberos tools
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
kerberos frameworks have several knobs for controlling logging.
The different framework knobs are:
.Bl -tag -width "XXX"
.It libkrb
The Kerberos library, some gss-api Kerberos output ends up here too
.It kcm
the kcm library (credentials cache, ntlm client)
.It kdc
the kerberos KDC output
.It digest-service
the digest service (ntlm server)
.El
.Sh CONFIGURATION FILE
.Bd -literal -offset ident
[logging]
	<subsystem> = 0-/SYSLOG:
.Ed
and watch syslog for logging information.
.Sh APPLE MAC OS X
First turn up syslog debugging
.Dl sudo syslog -c 0 -d
then you can see the syslog output in Console.app or by running
.Dl syslog -w -k org.h5l.asl
To enable more extensive debugging logging for each subsystem, use the following commands:
.Bl -tag -width "XXX" -offset indent
.It Kerberos Library
sudo defaults write /Library/Preferences/com.apple.Kerberos logging -dict-add krb5 '0-/ASL:'
.It digest-server
sudo defaults write /Library/Preferences/com.apple.Kerberos logging -dict-add digest-service '0-/ASL:'
.It kcm
sudo defaults write /Library/Preferences/com.apple.Kerberos logging -dict-add kcm '0-/ASL:'
.It kdc
sudo defaults write /Library/Preferences/com.apple.Kerberos logging -dict-add kdc '0-/ASL:'
.It MIT Kerberos Shim
defaults write com.apple.MITKerberosShim EnableDebugging -bool true
.It GSS-API framework logging
sudo defaults write /Library/Preferences/com.apple.GSS DebugLevel -int 10
.El
.Sh Other options on Mac OS X
.Bl -tag -width "XXX" -offset ident
.It Make the admin API pretend to the server even on client
sudo defaults write /Library/Preferences/com.apple.Kerberos ForceHeimODServerMode -bool true
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr gss 5 ,
.Xr kerberos 8
