
.\" Copyright (c) 2003
.\" Originally written by Sergey A. Osokin
.\" Rewritten by Tom Rhodes
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2005 - 2013 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD: /repoman/r/ncvs/src/share/man/man5/nsmb.conf.5,v 1.1 2003/08/09 19:11:52 trhodes Exp $
.\"
.Dd June 30, 2003
.Dt NSMB.CONF 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm nsmb.conf
.Nd configuration file for
.Tn SMB
requests
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
file contains information about the computers and shares
or mount points for the
.Tn SMB
network protocol.
.Pp
The configuration hierarchy is made up of several sections,
each section containing a few or several lines of parameters
and their assigned values.
Each of these sections must begin with a section name enclosed within
square brackets, similar to:
.Pp
.D1 Bq Ar section_name
.Pp
The end of each section is marked by either the start of a new section,
or by the abrupt ending of the file, commonly referred to as the
.Tn EOF .
Each section may contain zero or more parameters such as:
.Pp
.D1 Bq Ar section_name
.D1 Ar key Ns = Ns Ar value
.Pp
where
.Ar key
represents a parameter name, and
.Ar value
would be the parameter's assigned value.
.Pp
The
.Tn SMB
library uses the following information for section names:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width indent -compact
.It Ic A)
.Bq Li default
.It Ic B)
.Bq Ar SERVER
.It Ic C)
.Op Ar SERVER : Ns Ar SHARE
.El
.Pp
Possible keywords may include:
.Bl -column ".Va signing_required" ".Sy Section" ".Va Default"
.It Sy "Keyword	Section	Default    Comment"
.It Sy "	A B C      Values"
.It Va addr               Ta "- + -"  Ta ""       Ta "DNS name or IP address of server"
.It Va nbtimeout          Ta "+ + -"  Ta "1s"     Ta "Timeout for resolving a NetBIOS name"
.It Va minauth            Ta "+ + -"  Ta "NTLMv2" Ta "Minimum authentication level allowed"
.It Va port445            Ta "+ + -"  Ta "normal" Ta "How to use SMB TCP/UDP ports"
.It Va streams            Ta "+ + +"  Ta "yes"    Ta "Use NTFS Streams if server supported"
.It Va soft               Ta "+ + +"  Ta ""       Ta "Make the mount soft"
.It Va notify_off         Ta "+ + +"  Ta "no"     Ta "Turn off using notifications"
.It Va kloglevel          Ta "+ - -"  Ta "0"      Ta "Turn on smb kernel logging"
.It Va smb_neg            Ta "+ - -"  Ta "normal" Ta "How to negotiate SMB 1/2/3"
.It Va signing_required   Ta  "+ - -" Ta "false"  Ta "Turn off smb client signing"
.It Va validate_neg_off   Ta "+ - -"  Ta "no"     Ta "Turn off using validate negotiate"
.It Va max_resp_timeout   Ta "+ + -"  Ta "30s"    Ta "Max time to wait for any response from server"
.El
.Pp
The minimum authentication level can be one of:
.Bl -tag -width ".Li kerberos"
.It Li kerberos
Kerberos - NTLMv2, NTLM, LM, and plain-text password authentication are
not attempted.
.It Li ntlmv2
NTLMv2 - Kerberos authentication is attempted if a Kerberos token can be
obtained, otherwise NTLMv2 authentication is attempted; if the server
doesn't support encrypted passwords, the authentication fails.
.It Li ntlm
NTLM - Kerberos authentication is attempted if a Kerberos token can be
obtained, otherwise NTLMv2 authentication is attempted and, if that
fails, NTLMv1 authentication is attempted, with zeroes in the LM hash;
if the server doesn't support encrypted passwords, the authentication
fails.
.It Li lm
LM - Kerberos authentication is attempted if a Kerberos token can be
obtained, otherwise NTLMv2 authentication is attempted and, if that
fails, NTLMv1 authentication is attempted, including the LM hash; if the
server doesn't support encrypted passwords, the authentication fails.
.It Li none
none - The same as
.Li lm
except that, if the server doesn't support encrypted passwords,
plain-text passwords are used. Required for servers that don't support extended security.
.El
.Pp
(Note: "NetBIOS" as used below means "NetBIOS over TCP/IP.")
.Pp
"How to use SMB TCP/UDP ports" can be one of:
.Bl -tag -width ".Li netbios_only"
.It Li normal
Attempt to connect via port 445. If that is
unsuccessful, try to connect via NetBIOS.
.It Li netbios_only
Do not attempt to connect via port 445.
.It Li no_netbios
Attempt to connect via port 445. If that is 
unsuccessful, do not try to connect via NetBIOS.
.El
.Pp
"How to negotiate SMB 1/2/3" can be one of:
.Bl -tag -width ".Li smb2_only"
.It Li normal
Negotiate with SMB 1 and attempt to negotiate to SMB 2/3.
.It Li smb1_only
Negotiate with only SMB 1.
.It Li smb2_only
Negotiate with only SMB 2. This also will set no_netbios.
.It Li smb3_only
Negotiate with only SMB 3. This also will set no_netbios.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width ".Pa /etc/nsmb.conf"
.It Pa /etc/nsmb.conf
The global configuration file.
.It Pa ~/Library/Preferences/nsmb.conf
The user's configuration file, conflicts will be overwritten by the global file.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
What follows is a sample configuration file which may,
or may not match your environment:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# Configuration file for example.com
[default]
minauth=ntlmv2
streams=yes
soft=yes
notify_off=yes
[WINXP]
addr=windowsXP.apple.com
.Ed
.Pp
All lines which begin with the
.Ql #
character are comments and will not be parsed.
The
.Dq Li default
section specifies that only Kerberos and NTLMv2 authentication should be
attempted; NTLM authentication should not be attempted if NTLMv2
authentication fails, and plain-text authentication should not be
attempted if the server doesn't support encrypted passwords.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr smbutil 1 ,
.Xr mount_smbfs 8
.Sh AUTHORS
This manual page was originally written by
.An -nosplit
.An Sergey Osokin Aq osa@FreeBSD.org
and
.An Tom Rhodes Aq trhodes@FreeBSD.org .
