.\" Copyright (c) 2015-2020 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" The contents of this file constitute Original Code as defined in and
.\" are subject to the Apple Public Source License Version 1.1 (the
.\" "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the
.\" License.  Please obtain a copy of the License at
.\" http://www.apple.com/publicsource and read it before using this file.
.\" 
.\" This Original Code and all software distributed under the License are
.\" distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AND APPLE HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL SUCH WARRANTIES,
.\" INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.  Please see the
.\" License for the specific language governing rights and limitations
.\" under the License.
.\" 
.\"     @(#)apfs.util.8
.Dd August 17, 2020
.Dt APFS.UTIL 8
.Os "Mac OS X"
.Sh NAME
.Nm apfs.util
.Nd APFS file system utility
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Fl A Ar get path
.Nm
.Fl A Ar set=yes/no path
.Nm
.Fl C Ar -type TYPE path
.Nm
.Fl D Ar get device
.Nm
.Fl D Ar set=yes/no device
.Nm
.Fl E Ar path
.Nm
.Fl G Ar path
.Nm
.Fl h
.Nm
.Fl k Ar device
.Nm
.Fl m Ar <verb> path
.Nm
.Fl M Ar dir
.Nm
.Fl O Ar path fs_name
.Nm
.Fl p Ar device removable writable
.Nm
.Fl P Ar verb1 verb2 path
.Nm
.Fl r Ar path
.Nm
.Fl R Ar SNAPSHOT device
.Nm
.Fl s Ar device
.Nm
.Fl S Ar dir
.Nm
.Fl t
.Nm
.Fl y Ar path
.Nm
.Fl Y Ar dir
.Nm
.Fl z Ar path
.Nm
.Fl Z Ar path
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
Command supports getting and setting various file system options.

.Ar path
argument is a path to any file within the mounted file system.  If it is used to specify a volume, any file within the same volume will get the same result.
.Ar device
argument is the /dev/diskXsY identifier corresponding to the volume.
.Ar dir
could be any directory in the mounted file system.
.Pp
Options:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl A Ar get path
get atime update setting for volume specified by
.Ar path .
.It Fl A Ar set=yes/no path
enable or disable update setting for volume specified by
.Ar path .
.It Fl C type Ar TYPE path
clear the purgeability of files of the specified type on the volume referred to by
.Ar path .
.br
.Ar TYPE
could be one of: photos, music, mail, document, data, podcast, video, movie, messages, books.
.It Fl D Ar get device
Get defragmentation setting for volume or container specied by
.Ar device .
.It Fl D Ar set=yes/no device
enable / disable defragmentation for volume or container specified by
.Ar device .
.It Fl E Ar path
drop the extents for
.Ar path
from the first snapshot
.It Fl G Ar path
get stats on the purgeble files on the volume specified by
.Ar path .
.It Fl k
Return the UUID of the apfs volume on
.Ar device .
.It Fl m Ar verb path
mark the file at path as purgeable with the various options specified.
.br
.Ar verb
could be many of: -low -med -high -photo -music -mail -document -data -podcast -video -movie -message -book -fault -clear
.It Fl M Ar dir
flag the named directory as "maintain-dir-stats".
.It Fl O Ar path fs_name
override the fstypename for apfs to be
.Ar fs_name
or "hfs" if the optional
.Ar fs_name
was not given.
.It Fl p Ar device
Return the apfs volume name of
.Ar device .
.It Fl P Ar criteria path
purge files meeting the
.Ar criteria
specified on the volume referred to by
.Ar path .
.br
.Ar criteria
could be -low -med -high
.br
and/or with specified parameters: -minsize VAL -maxage VAL -maxage AGE_IN_SECONDS -total TOTAL_PURGE_AMOUNT
.br
and/or specifiend by: -type TYPE, that could be one of -photos -music -mail -document -data -podcast -video -movie -messages -books
.It Fl r Ar dir
set the sync-root flag on the specified
.Ar dir
directory.
.It Fl R Ar SNAPSHOT device
set the volume specified by
.Ar device
to revert to the snapshot named by SNAPSHOT on next mount.
.It Fl s Ar device
Set container UUID and its volume(s) UUID(s) to new random values.
.Ar device
must be an identifier of a container.
.It Fl S Ar dir
get the directory stats from
.Ar dir .
.Ar path .
.It Fl t
stitches and creates synthetic objects on root volume group
.It Fl y Ar path
get the sync-root flag from the first parent that has one for the item identified by
.Ar path .
.It Fl Y Ar dir
get the sync-root flag from the specified directory in
.Ar dir .
.It Fl z Ar path
make the file at
.AR path
exempt from copy-on-write semantics for snapshots
.It Fl Z Ar path
get the purgeable file flags for the specific file at
.Ar path .

.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr diskarbitrationd 8
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
utility first appeared in OS X 10.12.
