.\"	$Id: pwpolicy.8,v 1.7 2006/05/02 23:06:14 snsimon Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2002-2014 Apple Inc., all rights reserved.
.Dd 13 November 2002
.Dt pwpolicy 8
.Os "Mac OS X"
.sp
.Sh NAME
.Nm pwpolicy
.Nd gets and sets password policies
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl h
.Nm
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl a Ar authenticator
.Op Fl p Ar password
.Op Fl u Ar username | Fl c Ar computername
.Op Fl n Ar nodename
command command-arg
.Nm
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl a Ar authenticator
.Op Fl p Ar password
.Op Fl u Ar username | Fl c Ar computername
.Op Fl n Ar nodename
command "policy1=value1 policy2=value2 ..."
.sp
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
manipulates password policies.
.Pp
.Ss Options
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl a
name of the authenticator
.It Fl c
name of the computer account to modify
.It Fl p
password (omit this option for a secure prompt)
.It Fl u
name of the user account to modify
.It Fl n
use a specific directory node; the search node is used by default.
.It Fl v
verbose
.It Fl h
help
.El
.Ss Commands
.Bl -tag -width getglobalpolicystrleneffect -compact
.It Fl getglobalpolicy
Get global policies.  DEPRECATED.
.It Fl setglobalpolicy
Set global policies.  DEPRECATED.
.It Fl getpolicy
Get policies for a user.  DEPRECATED.
.It Fl -get-effective-policy
Gets the combination of global and user policies that apply to the user.  DEPRECATED.
.It Fl setpolicy
Set policies for a user.  DEPRECATED.
.It Fl setpassword
Set a new password for a user. Non-administrators can use this command to change their own passwords.
.It Fl enableuser
Enable a user account that was disabled by a password policy event.
.It Fl disableuser
Disable a user account.
.It Fl getglobalhashtypes
Returns the default list of password hashes stored on disk for this system.
.It Fl setglobalhashtypes
Edits the default list of password hashes stored on disk for this system.
.It Fl gethashtypes
Returns a list of password hashes stored on disk for a user account.
.It Fl sethashtypes
Edits the list of password hashes stored on disk for a user account.
.It Fl setaccountpolicies
Sets (replaces) the account polices for the specified user.  If no user is specified, sets the global account policies.
Takes one argument: the name of the file containing the policies.
.It Fl getaccountpolicies
Gets the account policies for the specified user.  If no user is specified, gets the global account policies.
.It Fl clearaccountpolicies
Removes all of the account policies for the specified user.  If no user is specified, removes the global account policies.
.It Fl authentication-allowed
Determines if the policies allow the user to authenticate
.El
.Ss Account Policies
.Pp
Account policies are the replacement for the deprecated legacy global and user policies.  Account policies are
specified as a dictionary containing three keys, one key for each policy category.  Note that the dictionary is
not required to contain all of the policy categories.  Valid keys for the policy categories are:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width policyCategoryPasswordChangelen -compact
.It policyCategoryAuthentication
Controls when a user may login/authenticate.
.It policyCategoryPasswordChange
Determines if/when a user is required to change their password
.It policyCategoryPasswordContent
Controls the set of allowable characters in a password.
.El
.Pp
Each policy category contains an array of individual policy dictionaries.  Valid keys in the policy dictionary are:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width policyParameterslen
.It policyIdentifier
A user-defined unique identifier for the policy.
.It policyParameters
An optional key that contains a dictionary of parameters to be used in the policy or used for display purposes.
.It policyContent
The actual policy string, from which an NSPredicate can be created. Any valid NSPredicate keyword may be
used, as well as certain parameters from the user's record and the policy's parameters dictionary.
.El
.Pp
Below is an example account policy dictionary.  Not all policy categories need be present in the dictionary.
.Bd -literal -compact
<dict>
    <key>policyCategoryPasswordAuthentication</key>
    <array>
        <dict>
            <key>policyContent</key>
            <string>policyAttributeMaximumFailedAuthentications &lt; policyAttributeFailedAuthentications</string>
            <key>policyIdentifier</key>
            <string>failed auths</string>
        </dict>
    </array>
    <key>policyCategoryPasswordChange</key>
    <array>
        <dict>
            <key>policyContent</key>
            <string>policyAttributeCurrentTime &gt; policyAttributeLastPasswordChangeTime + policyAttributeExpiresEveryNDays * DAYS_TO_SECONDS</string>
            <key>policyIdentifier</key>
            <string>Change every 30 days</string>
            <key>policyParameters</key>
                <dict>
                <key>policyAttributeExpiresEveryNDays<key>
                <integer>30</integer>
       </dict>
    </array>
    <key>policyCategoryPasswordContent</key>
    <array>
        <dict>
            <key>policyContent</key>
            <string>policyAttributePassword matches '.{3,}+'</string>
            <key>policyIdentifier</key>
            <string>com.apple.policy.legacy.minChars</string>
            <key>policyParameters</key>
            <dict>
                <key>minimumLength</key>
                <integer>3</integer>
            </dict>
        </dict>
    </array>
</dict>
.Ed
.Ss Account Policy Keywords
The following keywords may be used in the policy content.  The values from the user's record will be substitued for the keyword
when the policy is evaluated.  User-defined keywords may also be used, as long the keyword is present in the policy's parameters dictionary.
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width policyAttributeMaximumConsecutiveCharacterslen -compact
.It policyAttributePassword
User's new password.
.It policyAttributePasswordHashes
Hashes of the new password.  Compared against the history.
.It policyAttributePasswordHistory
User's password history.
.It policyAttributePasswordHistoryDepth
How much password history to keep.
.It policyAttributeCurrentDate
Current date and time as an NSDate.  Use for comparing localized NSDates.
.It policyAttributeCurrentTime
Current date and time in seconds.  Used for date/time calculations, i.e. date + interval.
.It policyAttributeCurrentDayOfWeek
Current day of the week (integer).
.It policyAttributeCurrentTimeOfDay
Current time of day (0000 to 2359).
.It policyAttributeFailedAuthentications
Number of consecutive failed authentication attempts.
.It policyAttributeMaximumFailedAuthentications
Maximum allowed consecutive failed authentication attempts.
.It policyAttributeLastFailedAuthenticationTime
Time of the last failed authentication.
.It policyAttributeLastAuthenticationTime
Time of the last successful authentication.
.It policyAttributeLastPasswordChangeTime
Time of the last password change.
.It policyAttributeNewPasswordRequiredTime
Time when a new password is required.
.It policyAttributeCreationTime
Time when the account was created.
.It policyAttributeConsecutiveCharacters
Number of consecutive (i.e. run of the same) characters in a password.
.It policyAttributeMaximumConsecutiveCharacters
Maximum number of consectuive characters allowed in a password.
.It policyAttributeSequentialCharacters
Number of sequention (ascending or descending) characters in a password.
.It policyAttributeMaximumSequentialCharacters
Maximum allowed nmber of sequention (ascending or descending) characters in a password.
.It policyAttributeExpiresEveryNDays
Expires every n number of days.
.It policyAttributeDaysUntilExpiration
Synonym for the above.
.It policyAttributeEnableOnDate
Date on which the account is enabled (localized NSDate).
.It policyAttributeExpiresOnDate
Date on which the account will expire (localized NSdate).
.It policyAttributeEnableOnDayOfWeek
Day of week on which the account is enabled (integer).
.It policyAttributeExpiresOnDayOfWeek
Day of week on which the account will expire (integer).
.It policyAttributeEnableAtTimeOfDay
Time of day at which the account is enabled (integer, 0000-2359).
.It policyAttributeExpiresAtTimeOfDay
Time of day at which the account will expire (integer, 0000-2359).
.El
.Ss Legacy Global Policies (DEPRECATED)
.Bl -tag -width maxMinutesUntilChangePasswordlen -compact
.It Ev usingHistory
0 = user can reuse the current password, 1 = user cannot reuse the current password, 2-15 = user cannot reuse the last n passwords.
.It Ev usingExpirationDate
If 1, user is required to change password on the date in expirationDateGMT
.It Ev usingHardExpirationDate
If 1, user's account is disabled on the date in hardExpireDateGMT
.It Ev requiresAlpha
If 1, user's password is required to have a character in [A-Z][a-z].
.It Ev requiresNumeric
If 1, user's password is required to have a character in [0-9].
.It Ev expirationDateGMT
Date for the password to expire, format must be: mm/dd/yy
.It Ev hardExpireDateGMT
Date for the user's account to be disabled, format must be: mm/dd/yy
.It Ev validAfter
Date for the user's account to be enabled, format must be: mm/dd/yy
.It Ev maxMinutesUntilChangePassword
user is required to change the password at this interval
.It Ev maxMinutesUntilDisabled
user's account is disabled after this interval
.It Ev maxMinutesOfNonUse
user's account is disabled if it is not accessed by this interval
.It Ev maxFailedLoginAttempts
user's account is disabled if the failed login count exceeds this number
.It Ev minChars
passwords must contain at least minChars
.It Ev maxChars
passwords are limited to maxChars
.El
.Ss Additional Legacy User Policies (DEPRECATED)
.Bl -tag -width canModifyPasswordforSelflen -compact
.It Ev isDisabled
If 1, user account is not allowed to authenticate, ever.
.It Ev isAdminUser
If 1, this user can administer accounts on the password server.
.It Ev newPasswordRequired
If 1, the user will be prompted for a new password at the next authentication. Applications that do not
support change password will not authenticate.
.It Ev canModifyPasswordforSelf
If 1, the user can change the password.
.El
.Ss Stored Hash Types
.Bl -tag -width SALTED-SHA512-PBKDF2 -compact
.It Ev CRAM-MD5
Required for IMAP.
.It Ev RECOVERABLE
Required for APOP and WebDAV. Only available on Mac OS X Server edition.
.It Ev SALTED-SHA512-PBKDF2
The default for loginwindow.
.It Ev SALTED-SHA512
Legacy hash for loginwindow.
.It Ev SMB-NT
Required for compatibility with Windows NT/XP file sharing.
.It Ev SALTED-SHA1
Legacy hash for loginwindow.
.It Ev SHA1
Legacy hash for loginwindow.
.El
.sp
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Pp
To get global policies:
.Pp
.Bl -item -offset indent -compact
.It
.Nm
-getglobalpolicy
.El
.Pp
To set global policies:
.Pp
.Bl -item -offset indent -compact
.It
.Nm
-a authenticator -setglobalpolicy "minChars=4 maxFailedLoginAttempts=3"
.El
.Pp
To get policies for a specific user account:
.Pp
.Bl -item -offset indent -compact
.It
.Nm
-u user -getpolicy
.It
.Nm
-u user -n /NetInfo/DefaultLocalNode -getpolicy
.El
.Pp
To set policies for a specific user account:
.Pp
.Bl -item -offset indent -compact
.It
.Nm
-a authenticator -u user -setpolicy "minChars=4 maxFailedLoginAttempts=3"
.El
.Pp
To change the password for a user:
.Pp
.Bl -item -offset indent -compact
.It
.Nm
-a authenticator -u user -setpassword newpassword
.El
.Pp
To set the list of hash types for local accounts:
.Pp
.Bl -item -offset indent -compact
.It
.Nm
-a authenticator -setglobalhashtypes SMB-LAN-MANAGER off SMB-NT on
.El
.sp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr PasswordService 8
