'\" t
.\" @(#)appletviewer.1 1.9 00/06/13 SMI;
.\" Copyright 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc. Tous droits réservés.
.\" 
.TH appletviewer 1 "23 Apr 2001"
.SH NAME
appletviewer \- Java applet viewer
.\"
.\" This comment retained for historical purposes only:
.\"  This document was created by saving an HTML file as text
.\"  from the JavaSoft web site:
.\" 
.\" http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.5/docs/tooldocs/tools.html
.\" 
.\"  and adding appropriate troff macros.
.\" 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR appletviewer " ["
.IR options " ]"
.IR "urls " \|.\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION 
.IX "appletviewer" "" "\fLappletviewer\fP \(em run applets"
.IX "appletviewer" "" "\fLappletviewer\fP \(em Web browser"
The
.B appletviewer
command connects to the documents or
resources designated by
.I urls
and displays each applet
referenced by that document in its own window. 
Note: if the documents referred to by
.I urls
do not reference any
applets with the
\s-1\f3OBJECT\f1\s0, \s-1\f3EMBED\f1\s0, or
.SB APPLET
tag,
.B appletviewer
does nothing.
For details on the HTML tags that appletviewer supports,
see http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.5.0/docs/tooldocs/appletviewertags.html.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are supported:
.TP 10
.B  \-debug
Starts the applet viewer in the Java debugger,
.B jdb ,
thus allowing you to debug applets in the document.
(See
.BR  jdb (1).)
.TP 10
.BI \-encoding " encoding_name"
Specifies the input
.SM HTML
file encoding name.
.TP 10
.BI \-J option
Passes the string
.I option
through as a single argument to 
the Java interpreter
which runs
the appletviewer.
The argument should not contain spaces.
Multiple argument words must all begin with the prefix
.BR \-J ,
which is stripped.
This is useful for adjusting the compiler's execution
environment or compiler memory usage.
