'\" t
.\" @(#)jstack.1 1.10 04/06/13 SMI;
.\" Copyright 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc. Tous droits réservés.
.\" 
.TH jstack 1 "13 June 2004" 
.SH NAME
jstack \- stack trace 
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B jstack
[
.I option 
] 
.I pid
.br 
.B jstack
[
.I option 
] 
.I executable core
.br
.B jstack
[
.I option 
] [\f2server-id\fP@]\f2remote-hostname-or-IP\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B jstack
prints Java stack traces of Java threads for a 
given Java process or core file or a remote 
debug server. For each
Java frame, the full class name, method 
name, 'bci' (byte code index) and line number, 
if available, are printed. With
the -m option, jstack prints both Java and 
native frames of all threads along with 
the 'pc' (program counter). For each
native frame, the closest native symbol to 'pc', 
if available, is printed. C++ mangled 
names are not demangled. To
demangle C++ names, the output of this 
command may be piped to c++filt. 
.LP
.B NOTE -
This utility is unsupported and may or may not be 
available in future versions of the J2SE SDK. 
.B jstack is not
currently available on Windows platforms or 
on the Linux Itanium platform. 
.SH PARAMETERS 
Options are mutually exclusive. Option, if
used, should follow immediately after the command name. 
.if t .TP 20
.if n .TP 15
.BI pid
process id for which the stacktrace is to be printed. 
The process must be a Java process. To get a 
list of Java processes
running on a machine, jps may be used. 
.if t .TP 20
.if n .TP 15
.BI executable
Java executable from which the core dump was produced.
.if t .TP 20
.if n .TP 15
.BI core
core file for which the stack trace is to be printed.
.if t .TP 20
.if n .TP 15
.BI remote-hostname-or-IP
remote debug server's (see jsadebugd) hostname or IP address. 
.if t .TP 20
.if n .TP 15
.BI server-id
optional unique id, if multiple debug servers are 
running on the same remote host.
.SH OPTIONS
.if t .TP 20
.if n .TP 15
.BI \-m 
prints mixed mode (both Java and native C/C++ frames) stack trace. 
.if t .TP 20
.if n .TP 15
.BI \-h
Prints a help message.
.if t .TP 20
.if n .TP 15
.BI \-help
Prints a help message.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pstack (1)
.BR c++filt (1)
.BR jps (1)
.BR jsadebugd (1)
.SH KNOWN BUGS
Mixed mode stack trace, the \f3-m\fP option, does not work with the
remote debug server.
