'\" te  
'\"macro stdmacro
.ds Vn Version 1.2
.ds Dt 24 September 1999
.ds Re Release 1.2.1
.ds Dp May 22 14:45
.ds Dm 3 May 22 14:
.ds Xs 63441     4
.TH GLCULLFACE 3G
.SH NAME
.B "glCullFace
\- specify whether front- or back-facing facets can be culled

.SH C SPECIFICATION
void \f3glCullFace\fP(
GLenum \fImode\fP )
.nf
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP \w'\f2mode\fP\ \ 'u 
\f2mode\fP
Specifies whether front- or back-facing facets are candidates for culling.
Symbolic constants
\%\f3GL_FRONT\fP, \%\f3GL_BACK\fP, and \%\f3GL_FRONT_AND_BACK\fP are accepted.
The initial value is \%\f3GL_BACK\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\%\f3glCullFace\fP specifies whether front- or back-facing facets are culled
(as specified by \f2mode\fP) when facet culling is enabled. Facet
culling is initially disabled.
To enable and disable facet culling, call the
\%\f3glEnable\fP and \%\f3glDisable\fP commands
with the argument \%\f3GL_CULL_FACE\fP.
Facets include triangles,
quadrilaterals,
polygons,
and rectangles.
.P
\%\f3glFrontFace\fP specifies which of the clockwise and counterclockwise facets
are front-facing and back-facing.
See \%\f3glFrontFace\fP.
.SH NOTES
If  \f2mode\fP is \%\f3GL_FRONT_AND_BACK\fP, no facets are drawn, but other
primitives such as points and lines are drawn.
.SH ERRORS
\%\f3GL_INVALID_ENUM\fP is generated if \f2mode\fP is not an accepted value.
.P
\%\f3GL_INVALID_OPERATION\fP is generated if \%\f3glCullFace\fP
is executed between the execution of \%\f3glBegin\fP
and the corresponding execution of \%\f3glEnd\fP.
.SH ASSOCIATED GETS
\%\f3glIsEnabled\fP with argument \%\f3GL_CULL_FACE\fP
.br
\%\f3glGet\fP with argument \%\f3GL_CULL_FACE_MODE\fP
.SH SEE ALSO
\%\f3glEnable\fP,
\%\f3glFrontFace\fP
