'\" e  
'\"macro stdmacro
.ds Vn Version 1.2
.ds Dt 24 September 1999
.ds Re Release 1.2.1
.ds Dp May 22 14:45
.ds Dm 3 May 22 14:
.ds Xs 10274     6
.TH GLGETTEXPARAMETER 3G
.SH NAME
.B "glGetTexParameterfv, glGetTexParameteriv
\- return texture parameter values

.SH C SPECIFICATION
void \f3glGetTexParameterfv\fP(
GLenum \fItarget\fP,
.nf
.ta \w'\f3void \fPglGetTexParameterfv( 'u
	GLenum \fIpname\fP,
	GLfloat \fI*params\fP )
.fi
void \f3glGetTexParameteriv\fP(
GLenum \fItarget\fP,
.nf
.ta \w'\f3void \fPglGetTexParameteriv( 'u
	GLenum \fIpname\fP,
	GLint \fI*params\fP )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP \w'\f2target\fP\ \ 'u 
\f2target\fP
Specifies the symbolic name of the target texture.
\%\f3GL_TEXTURE_1D\fP,\%\f3GL_TEXTURE_2D\fP, and \%\f3GL_TEXTURE_3D\fP  are accepted.
.TP
\f2pname\fP
Specifies the symbolic name of a texture parameter.
\%\f3GL_TEXTURE_MAG_FILTER\fP,
\%\f3GL_TEXTURE_MIN_FILTER\fP,
\%\f3GL_TEXTURE_MIN_LOD\fP,
\%\f3GL_TEXTURE_MAX_LOD\fP,
\%\f3GL_TEXTURE_BASE_LEVEL\fP,
\%\f3GL_TEXTURE_MAX_LEVEL\fP,
\%\f3GL_TEXTURE_WRAP_S\fP,
\%\f3GL_TEXTURE_WRAP_T\fP,
\%\f3GL_TEXTURE_WRAP_R\fP,
\%\f3GL_TEXTURE_BORDER_COLOR\fP,
\%\f3GL_TEXTURE_PRIORITY\fP, and
\%\f3GL_TEXTURE_RESIDENT\fP are accepted.
.TP
\f2params\fP
Returns the texture parameters.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\%\f3glGetTexParameter\fP returns in \f2params\fP the value or values of the texture parameter
specified as \f2pname\fP.
\f2target\fP defines the target texture,
either \%\f3GL_TEXTURE_1D\fP, \%\f3GL_TEXTURE_2D\fP, or \%\f3GL_TEXTURE_3D\fP
to specify one-, two-, or three-dimensional texturing.
\f2pname\fP accepts the same symbols as \%\f3glTexParameter\fP,
with the same interpretations:
.TP 35
\%\f3GL_TEXTURE_MAG_FILTER\fP
Returns the single-valued texture magnification filter,
a symbolic constant. The initial value is \%\f3GL_LINEAR\fP.
.TP
\%\f3GL_TEXTURE_MIN_FILTER\fP
Returns the single-valued texture minification filter,
a symbolic constant. The initial value is \%\f3GL_NEAREST_MIPMAP_LINEAR\fP.
.TP
\%\f3GL_TEXTURE_MIN_LOD\fP
Returns the single-valued texture minimum level-of-detail value.  The
initial value is -1000.
.TP
\%\f3GL_TEXTURE_MAX_LOD\fP
Returns the single-valued texture maximum level-of-detail value. The
initial value is 1000.
.TP
\%\f3GL_TEXTURE_BASE_LEVEL\fP
Returns the single-valued base texture mipmap level.  The initial value is 0.
.TP
\%\f3GL_TEXTURE_MAX_LEVEL\fP
Returns the single-valued maximum texture mipmap array level.  The initial
value is 1000.
.TP
\%\f3GL_TEXTURE_WRAP_S\fP
Returns the single-valued wrapping function for texture coordinate s,
a symbolic constant. The initial value is \%\f3GL_REPEAT\fP.
.TP
\%\f3GL_TEXTURE_WRAP_T\fP
Returns the single-valued wrapping function for texture coordinate t,
a symbolic constant. The initial value is \%\f3GL_REPEAT\fP.
.TP
\%\f3GL_TEXTURE_WRAP_R\fP
Returns the single-valued wrapping function for texture coordinate r,
a symbolic constant. The initial value is \%\f3GL_REPEAT\fP.
.BP
.TP
\%\f3GL_TEXTURE_BORDER_COLOR\fP
Returns four integer or floating-point numbers that comprise the RGBA color
of the texture border.
Floating-point values are returned in the range [0, 1].
Integer values are returned as a linear mapping of the internal floating-point 
representation such that 1.0 maps to the most positive representable
integer and \-1.0 maps to the most negative representable
integer. The initial value is (0, 0, 0, 0). 
.TP
\%\f3GL_TEXTURE_PRIORITY\fP
Returns the residence priority of the target texture (or the named
texture bound to it). The initial value is 1. 
See \%\f3glPrioritizeTextures\fP.
.TP
\%\f3GL_TEXTURE_RESIDENT\fP
Returns the residence status of the target texture.
If the value returned in \f2params\fP is \%\f3GL_TRUE\fP, the texture is
resident in texture memory.
See \%\f3glAreTexturesResident\fP.
.SH NOTES
\%\f3GL_TEXTURE_PRIORITY\fP and \%\f3GL_TEXTURE_RESIDENT\fP are
available only if the GL version is 1.1 or greater.
.P
\%\f3GL_TEXTURE_3D\fP, 
\%\f3GL_TEXTURE_MIN_LOD\fP, \%\f3GL_TEXTURE_MAX_LOD\fP, \%\f3GL_TEXTURE_BASE_LEVEL\fP,
\%\f3GL_TEXTURE_MAX_LEVEL\fP, and \%\f3GL_TEXTURE_WRAP_R\fP are available only
if the GL version is 1.2 or greater.
.P
If an error is generated,
no change is made to the contents of \f2params\fP.
.SH ERRORS
\%\f3GL_INVALID_ENUM\fP is generated if \f2target\fP or \f2pname\fP is not an
accepted value.
.P
\%\f3GL_INVALID_OPERATION\fP is generated if \%\f3glGetTexParameter\fP
is executed between the execution of \%\f3glBegin\fP
and the corresponding execution of \%\f3glEnd\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
\%\f3glAreTexturesResident\fP,
\%\f3glPrioritizeTextures\fP,
\%\f3glTexParameter\fP
