.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 2001 Carnegie Mellon University.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. The name "Carnegie Mellon University" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For permission or any other legal
.\"    details, please contact  
.\"      Office of Technology Transfer
.\"      Carnegie Mellon University
.\"      5000 Forbes Avenue
.\"      Pittsburgh, PA  15213-3890
.\"      (412) 268-4387, fax: (412) 268-7395
.\"      tech-transfer@andrew.cmu.edu
.\"
.\" 4. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by Computing Services
.\"     at Carnegie Mellon University (http://www.cmu.edu/computing/)."
.\"
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN
.\" AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.TH sasl_checkapop "29 June 2001" SASL "SASL man pages"
.SH NAME
sasl_checkapop \- Check an APOP challenge/response
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sasl/sasl.h>

.BI "int sasl_checkapop(sasl_conn_t *" conn ", "
.BI "		       const char *" challenge ", "
.BI "		       unsigned " challen ", "
.BI "		       const char *" response ", "
.BI "		       unsigned " resplen "); "

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B sasl_checkapop()
will check an APOP challenge/response.  APOP is an optional POP3 (RFC 1939)
authentication command which uses a shared secret (password). The password is
stored in the SASL secrets database.  For information on the SASL shared
secrets database see the
.I System Administrators Guide
in the doc/ directory of the SASL distribution.
.sp
If called with a
.BI "NULL" " challenge" ","
.B sasl_checkapop()
will check to see if the APOP mechanism is enabled.

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
sasl_checkapop returns an integer which corresponds to one of the
following codes. SASL_OK indicates that the authentication is
complete. All other return codes indicate errors and should either be
handled or the authentication session should be quit.  See sasl_errors(3)
for meanings of return codes.

.SH "CONFORMING TO"
RFC 2222, RFC 1939
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sasl(3), sasl_errors(3)