.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 2001 Carnegie Mellon University.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. The name "Carnegie Mellon University" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For permission or any other legal
.\"    details, please contact  
.\"      Office of Technology Transfer
.\"      Carnegie Mellon University
.\"      5000 Forbes Avenue
.\"      Pittsburgh, PA  15213-3890
.\"      (412) 268-4387, fax: (412) 268-7395
.\"      tech-transfer@andrew.cmu.edu
.\"
.\" 4. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by Computing Services
.\"     at Carnegie Mellon University (http://www.cmu.edu/computing/)."
.\"
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN
.\" AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.TH sasl_getopt_t "10 July 2001" SASL "SASL man pages"
.SH NAME
sasl_getopt_t \- The SASL get option callback


.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sasl/sasl.h>

.sp
.BI "int sasl_getopt_t(void " *context ", "
.BI "		     const char " *plugin_name ", "
.BI "		     const char " *option ", "
.BI "		     const char ** " result ", "
.BI "		     unsigned * " len ")";

.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION

.B sasl_getopt_t
is used to retrieve an option, often mechanism specific, from the
application. An example of this is requested what KERBEROS_V4 srvtab
file to use.
.I plugin_name
is the plugin this value if for.
.I option
is a string representing the option. A common option that all server
applications should handle is \"pwcheck_method\" which represents the
method for checking plaintext passwords. See the administrators guide
for a full description of this option.
.PP
Memory management of options supplied by the getopt callback should be
done by the application, however, any requested option must remain available
until the callback is no longer valid.  That is, when sasl_dispose is called for a
the connection it is associated with, or sasl_done is called for global callbacks.
.PP
.SH "RETURN VALUE"

SASL callback functions should return SASL return codes. See sasl.h for a complete list. SASL_OK indicates success.

.SH "CONFORMING TO"
RFC 2222
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sasl(3), sasl_callbacks(3), sasl_errors(3)
