.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 2001 Carnegie Mellon University.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. The name "Carnegie Mellon University" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For permission or any other legal
.\"    details, please contact  
.\"      Office of Technology Transfer
.\"      Carnegie Mellon University
.\"      5000 Forbes Avenue
.\"      Pittsburgh, PA  15213-3890
.\"      (412) 268-4387, fax: (412) 268-7395
.\"      tech-transfer@andrew.cmu.edu
.\"
.\" 4. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by Computing Services
.\"     at Carnegie Mellon University (http://www.cmu.edu/computing/)."
.\"
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN
.\" AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.TH sasl_setprop "10 July 2001" SASL "SASL man pages"
.SH NAME
sasl_setprop \- Set a SASL property
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sasl/sasl.h>

.sp
.BI "int sasl_setprop(sasl_conn_t " *conn ", "
.BI "			 int " propnum ", " 
.BI "			 const void * " pvalue ")"  

.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION

.B sasl_setprop
sets the value of a SASL property. For example an application should tell the SASL library about any external negotiated security layer (i.e. TLS).

.I conn
is the SASL connection object.
.I propnum
is the identifier for the property requested and
.I pvalue
contains a pointer to the data. It is the applications job to make sure this type is correct. This is an easy way to crash a program.

.nf
SASL_AUTH_EXTERNAL - external authentication ID (const char *)
SASL_SSF_EXTERNAL -  external SSF active -- (sasl_ssf_t)
SASL_DEFUSERREALM - user realm (const char *)
SASL_SEC_PROPS  -    sasl_security_properties_t (may be freed after call)
SASL_IPLOCALPORT -   string describing the local ip and port in the form
                     "a.b.c.d;p", or "e:f:g:h:i:j:k:l;port"
SASL_IPREMOTEPORT -  string describing the remote ip and port in the form
                     "a.b.c.d;p", or "e:f:g:h:i:j:k:l;port"
.fi

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Returns SASL_OK on success. SASL error code on failure.

.SH "CONFORMING TO"
RFC 2222
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sasl(3), sasl_errors(3)
