.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 2001 Carnegie Mellon University.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. The name "Carnegie Mellon University" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For permission or any other legal
.\"    details, please contact  
.\"      Office of Technology Transfer
.\"      Carnegie Mellon University
.\"      5000 Forbes Avenue
.\"      Pittsburgh, PA  15213-3890
.\"      (412) 268-4387, fax: (412) 268-7395
.\"      tech-transfer@andrew.cmu.edu
.\"
.\" 4. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by Computing Services
.\"     at Carnegie Mellon University (http://www.cmu.edu/computing/)."
.\"
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN
.\" AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.TH sasl_getprop "10 July 2001" SASL "SASL man pages"
.SH NAME
sasl_getprop \- Get a SASL property


.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sasl/sasl.h>

.sp
.BI "int sasl_getprop(sasl_conn_t " *conn ", "
.BI "			 int " propnum ", " 
.BI "			 const void ** " pvalue ");"  

.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION

.B sasl_getprop
gets the value of a SASL property. For example after successful
authentication a server may wish to know the authorization name. Or a
client application may wish to know the strength of the negotiated
security layer.

.I conn
is the SASL connection object.
.I propnum
is the identifier for the property requested and
.I pvalue
is filled in on success. List of properties follows:

.nf
SASL_USERNAME     -  pointer to NUL terminated user name 
SASL_SSF          -  security layer security strength factor,
                     if 0, call to sasl_encode, sasl_decode unnecessary
SASL_MAXOUTBUF    -  security layer max output buf unsigned 
SASL_DEFUSERREALM -  server authentication realm used 
SASL_GETOPTCTX    -  context for getopt callback 
SASL_IPLOCALPORT  -  local address string
SASL_IPREMOTEPORT -  remote address string
SASL_SERVICE      -  service passed to sasl_*_new
SASL_SERVERFQDN   -  serverFQDN passed to sasl_*_new
SASL_AUTHSOURCE   -  name of auth source last used, useful for failed
                     authentication tracking
SASL_MECHNAME     -  active mechanism name, if any
SASL_PLUGERR      -  similar to sasl_errdetail
.fi

.PP

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Returns SASL_OK on success. SASL error code on failure.

.SH "CONFORMING TO"
RFC 2222
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sasl(3), sasl_errors(3), sasl_server_new(3), sasl_client_new(3)
