'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 1990-1993 The Regents of the University of California.
'\" Copyright (c) 1994-1997 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
'\"
'\" See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
'\" of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
'\" 
'\" RCS: @(#) $Id$
'\" 
.\" The -*- nroff -*- definitions below are for supplemental macros used
.\" in Tcl/Tk manual entries.
.\"
.\" .AP type name in/out ?indent?
.\"	Start paragraph describing an argument to a library procedure.
.\"	type is type of argument (int, etc.), in/out is either "in", "out",
.\"	or "in/out" to describe whether procedure reads or modifies arg,
.\"	and indent is equivalent to second arg of .IP (shouldn't ever be
.\"	needed;  use .AS below instead)
.\"
.\" .AS ?type? ?name?
.\"	Give maximum sizes of arguments for setting tab stops.  Type and
.\"	name are examples of largest possible arguments that will be passed
.\"	to .AP later.  If args are omitted, default tab stops are used.
.\"
.\" .BS
.\"	Start box enclosure.  From here until next .BE, everything will be
.\"	enclosed in one large box.
.\"
.\" .BE
.\"	End of box enclosure.
.\"
.\" .CS
.\"	Begin code excerpt.
.\"
.\" .CE
.\"	End code excerpt.
.\"
.\" .VS ?version? ?br?
.\"	Begin vertical sidebar, for use in marking newly-changed parts
.\"	of man pages.  The first argument is ignored and used for recording
.\"	the version when the .VS was added, so that the sidebars can be
.\"	found and removed when they reach a certain age.  If another argument
.\"	is present, then a line break is forced before starting the sidebar.
.\"
.\" .VE
.\"	End of vertical sidebar.
.\"
.\" .DS
.\"	Begin an indented unfilled display.
.\"
.\" .DE
.\"	End of indented unfilled display.
.\"
.\" .SO ?manpage?
.\"	Start of list of standard options for a Tk widget. The manpage
.\"	argument defines where to look up the standard options; if
.\"	omitted, defaults to "options". The options follow on successive
.\"	lines, in three columns separated by tabs.
.\"
.\" .SE
.\"	End of list of standard options for a Tk widget.
.\"
.\" .OP cmdName dbName dbClass
.\"	Start of description of a specific option.  cmdName gives the
.\"	option's name as specified in the class command, dbName gives
.\"	the option's name in the option database, and dbClass gives
.\"	the option's class in the option database.
.\"
.\" .UL arg1 arg2
.\"	Print arg1 underlined, then print arg2 normally.
.\"
.\" .QW arg1 ?arg2?
.\"	Print arg1 in quotes, then arg2 normally (for trailing punctuation).
.\"
.\" .PQ arg1 ?arg2?
.\"	Print an open parenthesis, arg1 in quotes, then arg2 normally
.\"	(for trailing punctuation) and then a closing parenthesis.
.\"
.\" RCS: @(#) $Id: man.macros,v 1.9 2008/01/29 15:32:33 dkf Exp $
.\"
.\"	# Set up traps and other miscellaneous stuff for Tcl/Tk man pages.
.if t .wh -1.3i ^B
.nr ^l \n(.l
.ad b
.\"	# Start an argument description
.de AP
.ie !"\\$4"" .TP \\$4
.el \{\
.   ie !"\\$2"" .TP \\n()Cu
.   el          .TP 15
.\}
.ta \\n()Au \\n()Bu
.ie !"\\$3"" \{\
\&\\$1 \\fI\\$2\\fP (\\$3)
.\".b
.\}
.el \{\
.br
.ie !"\\$2"" \{\
\&\\$1	\\fI\\$2\\fP
.\}
.el \{\
\&\\fI\\$1\\fP
.\}
.\}
..
.\"	# define tabbing values for .AP
.de AS
.nr )A 10n
.if !"\\$1"" .nr )A \\w'\\$1'u+3n
.nr )B \\n()Au+15n
.\"
.if !"\\$2"" .nr )B \\w'\\$2'u+\\n()Au+3n
.nr )C \\n()Bu+\\w'(in/out)'u+2n
..
.AS Tcl_Interp Tcl_CreateInterp in/out
.\"	# BS - start boxed text
.\"	# ^y = starting y location
.\"	# ^b = 1
.de BS
.br
.mk ^y
.nr ^b 1u
.if n .nf
.if n .ti 0
.if n \l'\\n(.lu\(ul'
.if n .fi
..
.\"	# BE - end boxed text (draw box now)
.de BE
.nf
.ti 0
.mk ^t
.ie n \l'\\n(^lu\(ul'
.el \{\
.\"	Draw four-sided box normally, but don't draw top of
.\"	box if the box started on an earlier page.
.ie !\\n(^b-1 \{\
\h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\l'\\n(^lu+3n\(ul'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\l'|0u-1.5n\(ul'
.\}
.el \}\
\h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\h'\\n(^lu+3n'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\l'|0u-1.5n\(ul'
.\}
.\}
.fi
.br
.nr ^b 0
..
.\"	# VS - start vertical sidebar
.\"	# ^Y = starting y location
.\"	# ^v = 1 (for troff;  for nroff this doesn't matter)
.de VS
.if !"\\$2"" .br
.mk ^Y
.ie n 'mc \s12\(br\s0
.el .nr ^v 1u
..
.\"	# VE - end of vertical sidebar
.de VE
.ie n 'mc
.el \{\
.ev 2
.nf
.ti 0
.mk ^t
\h'|\\n(^lu+3n'\L'|\\n(^Yu-1v\(bv'\v'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^Yu'\h'-|\\n(^lu+3n'
.sp -1
.fi
.ev
.\}
.nr ^v 0
..
.\"	# Special macro to handle page bottom:  finish off current
.\"	# box/sidebar if in box/sidebar mode, then invoked standard
.\"	# page bottom macro.
.de ^B
.ev 2
'ti 0
'nf
.mk ^t
.if \\n(^b \{\
.\"	Draw three-sided box if this is the box's first page,
.\"	draw two sides but no top otherwise.
.ie !\\n(^b-1 \h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\l'\\n(^lu+3n\(ul'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\h'|0u'\c
.el \h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\h'\\n(^lu+3n'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\h'|0u'\c
.\}
.if \\n(^v \{\
.nr ^x \\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^Yu
\kx\h'-\\nxu'\h'|\\n(^lu+3n'\ky\L'-\\n(^xu'\v'\\n(^xu'\h'|0u'\c
.\}
.bp
'fi
.ev
.if \\n(^b \{\
.mk ^y
.nr ^b 2
.\}
.if \\n(^v \{\
.mk ^Y
.\}
..
.\"	# DS - begin display
.de DS
.RS
.nf
.sp
..
.\"	# DE - end display
.de DE
.fi
.RE
.sp
..
.\"	# SO - start of list of standard options
.de SO
'ie '\\$1'' .ds So \\fBoptions\\fR
'el .ds So \\fB\\$1\\fR
.SH "STANDARD OPTIONS"
.LP
.nf
.ta 5.5c 11c
.ft B
..
.\"	# SE - end of list of standard options
.de SE
.fi
.ft R
.LP
See the \\*(So manual entry for details on the standard options.
..
.\"	# OP - start of full description for a single option
.de OP
.LP
.nf
.ta 4c
Command-Line Name:	\\fB\\$1\\fR
Database Name:	\\fB\\$2\\fR
Database Class:	\\fB\\$3\\fR
.fi
.IP
..
.\"	# CS - begin code excerpt
.de CS
.RS
.nf
.ta .25i .5i .75i 1i
..
.\"	# CE - end code excerpt
.de CE
.fi
.RE
..
.\"	# UL - underline word
.de UL
\\$1\l'|0\(ul'\\$2
..
.\"	# QW - apply quotation marks to word
.de QW
.ie '\\*(lq'"' ``\\$1''\\$2
.\"" fix emacs highlighting
.el \\*(lq\\$1\\*(rq\\$2
..
.\"	# PQ - apply parens and quotation marks to word
.de PQ
.ie '\\*(lq'"' (``\\$1''\\$2)\\$3
.\"" fix emacs highlighting
.el (\\*(lq\\$1\\*(rq\\$2)\\$3
..
.\"	# QR - quoted range
.de QR
.ie '\\*(lq'"' ``\\$1''\\-``\\$2''\\$3
.\"" fix emacs highlighting
.el \\*(lq\\$1\\*(rq\\-\\*(lq\\$2\\*(rq\\$3
..
.\"	# MT - "empty" string
.de MT
.QW ""
..
.TH Tk_WindowId 3 "8.4" Tk "Tk Library Procedures"
.BS
.SH NAME
Tk_WindowId, Tk_Parent, Tk_Display, Tk_DisplayName, Tk_ScreenNumber, Tk_Screen, Tk_X, Tk_Y, Tk_Width, Tk_Height, Tk_Changes, Tk_Attributes, Tk_IsContainer, Tk_IsEmbedded, Tk_IsMapped, Tk_IsTopLevel, Tk_ReqWidth, Tk_ReqHeight, Tk_MinReqWidth, Tk_MinReqHeight, Tk_InternalBorderLeft, Tk_InternalBorderRight, Tk_InternalBorderTop, Tk_InternalBorderBottom, Tk_Visual, Tk_Depth, Tk_Colormap, Tk_Interp  \- retrieve information from Tk's local data structure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <tk.h>\fR
.sp
Window
\fBTk_WindowId\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.sp
Tk_Window
\fBTk_Parent\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.sp
Display *
\fBTk_Display\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.sp
const char *
\fBTk_DisplayName\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTk_ScreenNumber\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.sp
Screen *
\fBTk_Screen\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTk_X\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTk_Y\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTk_Width\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTk_Height\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.sp
XWindowChanges *
\fBTk_Changes\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.sp
XSetWindowAttributes *
\fBTk_Attributes\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTk_IsContainer\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTk_IsEmbedded\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTk_IsMapped\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTk_IsTopLevel\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTk_ReqWidth\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTk_ReqHeight\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTk_MinReqWidth\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTk_MinReqHeight\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTk_InternalBorderLeft\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTk_InternalBorderRight\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTk_InternalBorderTop\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTk_InternalBorderBottom\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.sp
Visual *
\fBTk_Visual\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTk_Depth\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.sp
Colormap
\fBTk_Colormap\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.sp
Tcl_Interp *
\fBTk_Interp\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS Tk_Window tkwin
.AP Tk_Window tkwin in
Token for window.
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBTk_WindowId\fR and the other names listed above are
all macros that return fields from Tk's local data structure
for \fItkwin\fR.  None of these macros requires any
interaction with the server;  it is safe to assume that
all are fast.
.PP
\fBTk_WindowId\fR returns the X identifier for \fItkwin\fR,
or \fBNULL\fR if no X window has been created for \fItkwin\fR
yet.
.PP
\fBTk_Parent\fR returns Tk's token for the logical parent of
\fItkwin\fR.  The parent is the token that was specified when
\fItkwin\fR was created, or NULL for main windows.
.PP
\fBTk_Interp\fR returns the Tcl interpreter associated with a
\fItkwin\fR or NULL if there is an error.
.PP
\fBTk_Display\fR returns a pointer to the Xlib display structure
corresponding to \fItkwin\fR.  \fBTk_DisplayName\fR returns an
ASCII string identifying \fItkwin\fR's display.  \fBTk_ScreenNumber\fR
returns the index of \fItkwin\fR's screen among all the screens
of \fItkwin\fR's display.  \fBTk_Screen\fR returns a pointer to
the Xlib structure corresponding to \fItkwin\fR's screen.
.PP
\fBTk_X\fR, \fBTk_Y\fR, \fBTk_Width\fR, and \fBTk_Height\fR
return information about \fItkwin's\fR location within its
parent and its size.  The location information refers to the
upper-left pixel in the window, or its border if there is one.
The width and height information refers to the interior size
of the window, not including any border.  \fBTk_Changes\fR
returns a pointer to a structure containing all of the above
information plus a few other fields.  \fBTk_Attributes\fR
returns a pointer to an XSetWindowAttributes structure describing
all of the attributes of the \fItkwin\fR's window, such as background
pixmap, event mask, and so on (Tk keeps track of all this information
as it is changed by the application).  Note: it is essential that
applications use Tk procedures like \fBTk_ResizeWindow\fR instead
of X procedures like \fBXResizeWindow\fR, so that Tk can keep its
data structures up-to-date.
.PP
\fBTk_IsContainer\fR returns a non-zero value if \fItkwin\fR
is a container, and that some other application may be embedding
itself inside \fItkwin\fR.
.PP
\fBTk_IsEmbedded\fR returns a non-zero value if \fItkwin\fR
is not a free-standing window, but rather is embedded in some
other application.
.PP
\fBTk_IsMapped\fR returns a non-zero value if \fItkwin\fR
is mapped and zero if \fItkwin\fR is not mapped.
.PP
\fBTk_IsTopLevel\fR returns a non-zero value if \fItkwin\fR
is a top-level window (its X parent is the root window of the
screen) and zero if \fItkwin\fR is not a top-level window.
.PP
\fBTk_ReqWidth\fR and \fBTk_ReqHeight\fR return information about
the window's requested size.  These values correspond to the last
call to \fBTk_GeometryRequest\fR for \fItkwin\fR.
.PP
\fBTk_MinReqWidth\fR and \fBTk_MinReqHeight\fR return information about
the window's minimum requested size.  These values correspond to the last
call to \fBTk_SetMinimumRequestSize\fR for \fItkwin\fR.
.PP
\fBTk_InternalBorderLeft\fR, \fBTk_InternalBorderRight\fR,
\fBTk_InternalBorderTop\fR and \fBTk_InternalBorderBottom\fR 
return the width of one side of the internal border
that has been requested for \fItkwin\fR, or 0 if no internal border was
requested.  The return value is simply the last value passed to
\fBTk_SetInternalBorder\fR or \fBTk_SetInternalBorderEx\fR for \fItkwin\fR.
.PP
\fBTk_Visual\fR, \fBTk_Depth\fR, and \fBTk_Colormap\fR return
information about the visual characteristics of a window.
\fBTk_Visual\fR returns the visual type for
the window, \fBTk_Depth\fR returns the number of bits per pixel,
and \fBTk_Colormap\fR returns the current
colormap for the window.  The visual characteristics are
normally set from the defaults for the window's screen, but
they may be overridden by calling \fBTk_SetWindowVisual\fR.

.SH KEYWORDS
attributes, colormap, depth, display, height, geometry manager,
identifier, mapped, requested size, screen, top-level,
visual, width, window, x, y
