.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990, 1991, 1993, 1994
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgment:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)ls.1	8.7 (Berkeley) 7/29/94
.\" $FreeBSD: src/bin/ls/ls.1,v 1.69 2002/08/21 17:32:34 trhodes Exp $
.\"
.Dd Sept 27, 2012
.Dt DOT_CLEAN 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm dot_clean
.Nd Merge "._*" files with corresponding native files.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl fmnsv
.Op Fl Fl keep=[mostrecent|dotbar|native]
.Op Ar dir Ar ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
For each
.ul
dir\c
,
.Nm
recursively merges all ._* files with their corresponding native files according to the rules specified with the given arguments.  By default, if there is an attribute on the native file that is also present in the ._ file, the most recent attribute will be used.
.Pp
If no operands are given, a usage message is output.
If more than one directory is given, directories are merged in the order in which they are specified.
.Pp
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl f
.Tp
Flat merge.  Do not recursively merge all directories in the given
.Ar dir .
This is off by default.
.It Fl h
Help. Prints verbose usage message.
.It Fl m
Always delete dot underbar files.
.It Fl n
Delete dot underbar file if there is no matching native file.
.It Fl s
Follow symbolic links.  This will follow symbolic dot underbar files when they are found.
.It Fl v
Print verbose output.
.It Fl Fl keep=mostrecent
The default option.  If an attribute is associated with a data fork, use that.  Otherwise, use information stored in the AppleDouble file.  Note that the native fork's data is preferred even if the data in the AppleDouble file is newer.
.It Fl Fl keep=dotbar
Always use information stored in the AppleDouble file, replacing any extended attributes associated with the native file.
.It Fl Fl keep=native
Always use the information associated with the data fork, ignoring any AppleDouble files.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following is how to do an
.Nm
merge on the mounted volume test, always using the dot underbar information.
.Pp
.Dl "dot_clean --keep=dotbar /Volumes/test"
.Pp
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Ex -std
.Sh BUGS
None known.
