.Dd April 15, 2021
.Dt dyld_info 1
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME
.Nm dyld_info
.Nd "Displays information used by dyld in programs and dylibs"
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl arch Ar arch-name
.Op Fl platform
.Op Fl segments
.Op Fl dependents
.Op Fl inits
.Op Fl exports
.Op Fl imports
.Op Fl objc
.Op Fl fixups
.Op Fl fixup_chains
.Op Fl fixup_chain_details
.Op Fl symbolic_fixups
.Op Fl validate_only
.Ar file(s)
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The dyld_info tool will display information that dyld uses from binaries.
It supports fixups information encoded as opcode based or as chained fixups.
.Pp
If the tool is run with no options, it defaults to the common options
(-platform -segments -dependents).
.Pp
The tool can be run with paths to dylibs that are in the dyld cache and not on disk.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl arch Ar arch
Only display the specified architecture.  Other architectures in a universal image are ignored.
.It Fl platform
Display the platform (e.g. macOS, iOS) that the binary was built for.
.It Fl segments
Display all segments and sections with size info.
.It Fl dependents
Display all dylibs that the binary is linked against.
.It Fl inits
Display all static initializers and Objective-C +load methods.
.It Fl exports
Display all exported symbols.
.It Fl imports
Display all imported symbols.
.It Fl objc
Display the Objective-C classes and categories defined.
.It Fl fixups
Display a simple table of fixup locations and what dyld will set them to.
.It Fl fixup_chains
If the binary uses chained fixups, displays the format of the chains and the starts.
.It Fl fixup_chain_details
Display a table of all the raw fixup chain bits and their meanings.
.It Fl symbolic_fixups
Display all fixups, grouped by data symbol.
.It Fl validate_only
Display nothing if binary is valid, or information about what parts are malformed.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr otool 1
.Xr nm 1
