.\"
.\" lprm man page for CUPS.
.\"
.\" Copyright © 2007-2019 by Apple Inc.
.\" Copyright © 1997-2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\" Licensed under Apache License v2.0.  See the file "LICENSE" for more
.\" information.
.\"
.TH lprm 1 "CUPS" "26 April 2019" "Apple Inc."
.SH NAME
lprm \- cancel print jobs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lprm
[
.B \-E
] [
.B \-U
.I username
] [
.B \-h
.IR server [ :port ]
] [
.B \-P
.IR destination [ /instance ]
] [
.B \-
] [
.I job-id(s)
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lprm
cancels print jobs that have been queued for printing.
If no arguments are supplied, the current job on the default destination is canceled.
You can specify one or more job ID numbers to cancel those jobs or use the \fI\-\fR option to cancel all jobs.
.SH OPTIONS
The
.B lprm
command supports the following options:
.TP 5
.B \-E
Forces encryption when connecting to the server.
.TP 5
\fB\-P \fIdestination\fR[\fI/instance\fR]
Specifies the destination printer or class.
.TP 5
\fB\-U \fIusername\fR
Specifies an alternate username.
.TP 5
\fB\-h \fIserver\fR[\fI:port\fR]
Specifies an alternate server.
.SH CONFORMING TO
The CUPS version of
.B lprm
is compatible with the standard Berkeley command of the same name.
.SH EXAMPLES
Cancel the current job on the default printer:
.nf

    lprm

.fi
Cancel job 1234:
.nf

    lprm 1234

.fi
Cancel all jobs:
.nf

    lprm \-
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cancel (1),
.BR lp (1),
.BR lpq (1),
.BR lpr (1),
.BR lpstat (1),
CUPS Online Help (http://localhost:631/help)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \[co] 2007-2019 by Apple Inc.
