.TH POSTLOCK 1 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
postlock
\-
lock mail folder and execute command
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
.fi
\fBpostlock\fR [\fB\-c \fIconfig_dir\fR] [\fB\-l \fIlock_style\fR]
        [\fB\-v\fR] \fIfile command...\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
The \fBpostlock\fR(1) command locks \fIfile\fR for exclusive
access, and executes \fIcommand\fR. The locking method is
compatible with the Postfix UNIX\-style local delivery agent.

Options:
.IP "\fB\-c \fIconfig_dir\fR"
Read the \fBmain.cf\fR configuration file in the named directory
instead of the default configuration directory.
.IP "\fB\-l \fIlock_style\fR"
Override the locking method specified via the
\fBmailbox_delivery_lock\fR configuration parameter (see below).
.IP \fB\-v\fR
Enable verbose logging for debugging purposes. Multiple \fB\-v\fR
options make the software increasingly verbose.
.PP
Arguments:
.IP \fIfile\fR
A mailbox file. The user should have read/write permission.
.IP \fIcommand...\fR
The command to execute while \fIfile\fR is locked for exclusive
access.  The command is executed directly, i.e. without
interpretation by a shell command interpreter.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
The result status is 75 (EX_TEMPFAIL) when \fBpostlock\fR(1)
could not perform the requested operation.  Otherwise, the
exit status is the exit status from the command.
.SH BUGS
.ad
.fi
With remote file systems, the ability to acquire a lock does not
necessarily eliminate access conflicts. Avoid file access by
processes running on different machines.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP \fBMAIL_CONFIG\fR
Directory with Postfix configuration files.
.IP \fBMAIL_VERBOSE\fR
Enable verbose logging for debugging purposes.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
The following \fBmain.cf\fR parameters are especially relevant to
this program.
The text below provides only a parameter summary. See
\fBpostconf\fR(5) for more details including examples.
.SH "LOCKING CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBdeliver_lock_attempts (20)\fR"
The maximal number of attempts to acquire an exclusive lock on a
mailbox file or \fBbounce\fR(8) logfile.
.IP "\fBdeliver_lock_delay (1s)\fR"
The time between attempts to acquire an exclusive lock on a mailbox
file or \fBbounce\fR(8) logfile.
.IP "\fBstale_lock_time (500s)\fR"
The time after which a stale exclusive mailbox lockfile is removed.
.IP "\fBmailbox_delivery_lock (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
How to lock a UNIX\-style \fBlocal\fR(8) mailbox before attempting delivery.
.SH "RESOURCE AND RATE CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBfork_attempts (5)\fR"
The maximal number of attempts to fork() a child process.
.IP "\fBfork_delay (1s)\fR"
The delay between attempts to fork() a child process.
.SH "MISCELLANEOUS CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
The default location of the Postfix main.cf and master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBimport_environment (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
The list of environment parameters that a privileged Postfix
process will import from a non\-Postfix parent process, or name=value
environment overrides.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
postconf(5), configuration parameters
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
The Secure Mailer license must be distributed with this software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA

Wietse Venema
Google, Inc.
111 8th Avenue
New York, NY 10011, USA
