.TH SEGEDIT 1 "June 25, 2018" "Apple, Inc."
.SH NAME
segedit \- extract and replace sections from object files
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsegedit\fR \fIinput_file\fR [\fB-extract\fR \fIseg_name\fR \fIsect_name\fR
\fIdata_file\fR] ...
.br
\fBsegedit\fR \fIinput_file\fR [\fB-replace\fR \fIseg_name\fR \fIsect_name\fR
\fIdata_file\fR] ... \fB-output\fR \fIoutput_file\fR
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B segedit
extracts or replaces named sections from the \fIinput_file\fR. When extracting
sections,
.B segedit
will write the contents of each requested section into \fIdata_file\fR. When
replacing sections,
.B segedit
will write a new \fIoutput_file\fR formed from the \fIinput_file\fR and the
requested replacement section content from \fIdata_file\fR. The segment and
section names are the same as those given to
.BR ld (1)
with the
.I \-sectcreate
option.  The segment and section names of an object file can be examined with
the
.I \-l
option to
.BR otool (1).
Only sections in segments that have no relocation to or from them (i.e., segments
marked with the
.SM SG_NORELOC
flag) can be replaced but all sections can be extracted.
.PP
The options to
.BR segedit (1):
.TP
.BI \-extract " seg_name sect_name data_file"
Extracts each section specified by the segment and section names and places
the contents in the specified \fIdata_file\fR. If the output file is `\-'
the section contents will be written to the standard output.
.TP
.BI \-replace " seg_name sect_name data_file"
Replaces each section specified by the segment and section names and takes the
new section content from the specified \fIdata_file\fR. The
.BI \-output " output_file"
option must also be specified. The resulting size of the section will be rounded
to a multiple of 4 bytes and padded with zero bytes if necessary.
.TP
.BI \-output " output_file"
Specifies the new file to create when replacing sections.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ld(1), otool(1), lipo(1)
.SH "LIMITATIONS"
Only Mach-O format files that are laid out in a contiguous address space
and with their segments in increasing address order can have their segments
replaced by this program.  This layout is what
.BR ld (1)
produces by default.
.PP
Only sections in segments that have no relocation to or from them (i.e., segments
marked with the
.SM SG_NORELOC
flag) can be replaced.
.PP
.B segedit
will not extract or replace sections from universal files. If necessary, use
.BR lipo (1)
to extract the desired Mach-O files from a universal file before running
.B segedit.
