.Dd September 8, 2021
.Dt shortcuts 1
.Os "macOS"
.Sh NAME
.Nm shortcuts
.Nd Command-line utility for running shortcuts.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm shortcuts run
.Ar shortcut-name
.Op Fl \-input\-path Ar input-path No ...
.Op Fl \-output\-path Ar output-path No ...
.Op Fl \-output\-type Ar output-type
.Nm shortcuts list
.Op Fl \-folder\-name Ar folder-name
.Op Fl \-folders
.Nm shortcuts view
.Ar shortcut-name
.Nm shortcuts sign
.Op Fl \-mode Ar mode
.Fl \-input Ar input
.Fl \-output Ar output
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
command is used to run, list, view or sign shortcuts. To create or edit a shortcut, use the Shortcuts application.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Ss shortcuts run 
.Ar shortcut-name
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Op Fl \-input\-path Ar input-path No ...
The input to provide to the shortcut. Can be dropped, or set to
.Dq Li -
for stdin.
.It Op Fl \-output\-path Ar output-path No ...
Where to write the shortcut output, if applicable. Can be omitted, or set to
.Dq Li -
for stdout.
.It Op Fl \-output\-type Ar output-type
What type to output data in, in Uniform Type Identifier format. If not provided
.Nm
will attempt to infer the output type from the output filename, or use the default type of the output content.
.El
.Ss shortcuts list
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Op Fl \-folder\-name Ar folder-name
List all shortcuts in the folder
.Dq Li folder-name Ns No .
.It Op Fl \-folders
List all user-created folders.
.El
.Ss shortcuts sign
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Op Fl \-mode Ar mode
The signing mode. Either
.Dq Li people-who-know-me
or
.Dq Li anyone Ns No .
Specifying
.Dq Li people-who-know-me
will sign locally, but only your devices, or people who have your contact info in their contacts, will be able to import the shortcut. Specifying
.Dq Li anyone
will notarize via iCloud, and allow anyone to import the shortcut.
.It Fl \-input Ar input
The shortcut file to sign.
.It Fl \-output Ar output
Output path for the signed shortcut file.
.El
.Pp
