.TH SIZE 1 "July 28, 2005" "Apple Computer, Inc."
.SH NAME
size \- print the size of the sections in an object file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B size
[ option ... ] [ object ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Size
(without the
.B \-m
option) prints the (decimal) number of bytes required by the \_\^\_TEXT,
\_\^\_DATA and \_\^\_OBJC segments.  All other segments are totaled and
that size is listed in the `others' column.  The final two columns is
the sum in decimal and hexadecimal.
If no file is specified,
.B a.out
is used.
.PP
The options to
.IR size (1)
are:
.TP
.B \-
Treat the remaining arguments as name of object files not options to
.IR size (1).
.TP
.B \-m
Print the sizes of the Mach-O segments and sections as well as the total sizes
of the sections in each segment and the total size of the segments in the file.
.TP
.B \-l
When used with the
.B \-m
option, also print the addresses and offsets of the sections and segments.
.TP
.B \-x
When used with the
.B \-m
option,
print the values in hexadecimal (with leading 0x's) rather than decimal.
.TP
.BI \-arch " arch_type"
Specifies the architecture,
.I arch_type,
of the file for
.IR size (1)
to operate on when the file is a universal file.  (See
.IR arch (3)
for the currently know
.IR arch_type s.)
The
.I arch_type
can be "all" to operate on all architectures in the file.
The default is to display only the host architecture, if the file contains it;
otherwise, all architectures in the file are shown.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
otool(1)
.SH BUGS
The size of common symbols can't be reflected in any of the numbers for
relocatable object files.
