.TH tapi\-reexport 1 2017-02-20 Darwin "TAPI Tool Documentation"
.SH NAME
tapi\-reexport \- Create a linker reexport file by scanning the header files
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fItapi reexport\fR [options] <inputs>

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The reexport command creates a linker reexport file by parsing the
header files that are associated with a framework/dynamic library. The headers
are parsed per default in Objective-C syntax mode. C++ support is still
experimental.

.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\-arch <architecture>
.RS 4
Specifies the architectures to use for parsing the headers. Exactly one
architecture must be specified.
.RE

.PP
\-macosx_version_min <value>
.br
\-ios_version_min <value>
.br
\-watchos_version_min <value>
.br
\-tvos_version_min <value>
.br
.RS 4
This is set to indicate the oldest platform version that that the output is to
be used on.
.RE

.PP
\-ObjC
.RS 4
Treat source input files as Objective-C inputs (default).
.RE

.PP
\-ObjC++
.RS 4
Treat source input files as Objective-C++ inputs.
.RE

.PP
\-x <language>
.RS 4
Treat subsequent input files as having type <language>. Supported values for
language are c, c++, objective-c, and objective-c++.
.RE

.PP
\-std=<value>
.RS 4
Language standard to compile for.
.RE

.PP
\-D <value>
.br
\-U <value>
.RS 4
Define/undefine macro.
.RE

.PP
\-isysroot <directory>
.RS 4
Specifies the path to the SDK directory.
.RE

.PP
\-I <value>
.RS 4
Add directory to include search path.
.RE

.PP
\-L <value>
.RS 4
Add directory to the library search path.
.RE

.PP
\-F <value>
.RS 4
Add directory to framework include search path.
.RE

.PP
\-o <file>
.RS 4
Write output to <file>.
.RE

.PP
\-fno\-rtti
.RS 4
Disable generation of rtti information.
.RE

.PP
\-\-help
.RS 4
Prints the list of options.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
tapi(1), ld(1)
