.TH uuconv 1 "Taylor UUCP 1.07"
.SH NAME
uuconv \- convert UUCP configuration files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B uuconv
-i type -o type [-p program] [--program program]
.PP
.B uuconv
--input type --output type [-p program] [--program program]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B uuconv
program can be used to convert UUCP configuration
files from one format to another.  This can be useful
for administrators converting from an older UUCP package.
Taylor UUCP is able to read and use old configuration file
formats, but some new features can not be selected using
the old formats.
.PP
The type of configuration file to read is specified using the
.B -i
or
.B \-\-input
options.  
The type of  configuration file to write is specified using the
.B -o
or
.B \-\-output
options.
.PP
The supported configuration file types are 
.I taylor,
.I v2,
and  
.I hdb.
For a description of the 
.I taylor
configuration files, use the
.B info
command and see "*Note Configuration Files::" for uucp.
The other types of configuration files are used by traditional UUCP
packages, and are not described in this manual.
.PP
An input configuration of type  
.I taylor
is read  from  a compiled in directory by default.
.PP
The output configuration is written to files in the directory
in which 
.B uuconv
is run.
.PP
Some information in the input files may not be representable
in the desired output format, in which case 
.B uuconv 
will silently discard it.
The output of uuconv should be carefully checked before it is used. 
The uuchk(8) program may be used for this purpose.
.PP
The 
.B -p
or
.B \-\-program
option may be used to convert specific 
.I cu
configuration information,  
rather than the default of only converting the 
.I uucp
configuration information.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5
.B -i, \-\-input
Set input type (one of taylor, v2, hdb)
.TP 5
.B -o, \-\-output
Set output type (one of taylor, v2, hdb)
.TP 5
.B -p, \-\-program
Program to convert (e.g., uucp or cu)
.TP 5
.PP
Standard UUCP options:
.B \-v, \-\-version
Report version information and exit.
.TP 5
.B \-\-help
Print a help message and exit.
.SH SEE ALSO
cu(1), info(1), uucp(1), uuchk(8)
.SH AUTHOR
Ian Lance Taylor
<ian@airs.com>.
Text for this Manpage comes from Taylor UUCP, version 1.07 Info documentation.

