.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.Dd 5/2/16               \" DATE 
.Dt AssetCacheLocatorUtil 8      \" Program name and manual section number 
.Os "OS X"
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm AssetCacheLocatorUtil
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line. 
.\" .Nm Other_name_for_same_program(),
.\" .Nm Yet another name for the same program.
.\" Use .Nm macro to designate other names for the documented program.
.Nd Utility for reporting Caching Service information
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
reports information related to OS X Server Caching Servers running on the machine or on the local network.
.Pp
The information that
.Nm
reports depends on the user running it.
It might produce different results for different users, including the superuser.
It also depends on the current network configuration
and on whether it is run in a GUI session or not.
.Pp
.Nm
reports the following information:
.Bl -tag
.It "Availability hint"
The system can save a hint about whether or not there might be caching server(s) on the local network.
.Nm
prints that saved hint if it is available.
.It "Saved servers"
The system can save information about caching server(s) it has previously found on the local network.
.Nm
prints that saved information if it is available.
.It "Refreshed servers"
.Nm
forces the system to look up caching server(s) on the local network and refresh the saved information above.
It then prints the results.
.El
