.\" Copyright (c) 2012 Apple Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.Dd September 25, 2012
.Dt CSUNIQUE 8
.Os OS X
.Sh NAME
.Nm csunique
.Nd modify the UUIDs of CoreStorage metadata objects
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl v | -verbose
.Op Fl n | -dry-run
.Op Fl I | -include Ar include
.Op Fl X | -exclude Ar exclude
.Ar device ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Pp
The
.Nm
utility can rewrite
.Tn CoreStorage
logical volume group metadata, changing object UUIDs.  All CoreStorage objects are uniquely
identified by UUIDs.  This can be useful when copying an initial "canned image" onto multiple
machines to establish these as independent volumes.
.Pp
The
.Ar device
parameter(s) should be path(s) to the "raw" (character special) disk device(s) such as
.Pa /dev/rdisk1s1 
that constitute the CoreStorage logical volume group.
If you specify a "non-raw" (block special) path such as
.Pa /dev/disk1s1 ,
or just the disk name such as
.Pa disk1s1 ,
it will automatically be converted to the corresponding raw disk device
.Pa ( /dev/rdisk1s1 ) .
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -offset indent
.It Fl v
Output verbose progress information of each step and the UUID re-mappings.
.It Fl n
Operates in "dry run" mode; no changes are made to the on-disk data.
.It Fl I
Specifies an additional class of UUID objects that should be modified.
.It Fl X
Specifies a class of UUID objects that should not be modified.  By default
all UUIDs will be changed.
.El
.Pp
The classes of CoreStorage UUID objects that can be included or excluded
from modification by
.Nm
are indicated using the following characters:
.Bl -hang -offset indent
.It f
logical volume family (LVF)
.It g
logical volume group (LVG)
.It l
logical volume (LV)
.It p
physical volume (PV)
.It w
MLV wipekey
.El
.Pp
.Nm
processes/transforms the CoreStorage metadata in a number of steps:
.Bl -enum -offset indent
.It
Firstly, an initial
.Pa fsck_cs
is performed to ensure the source structure is consistent;
.It
If the LVG is currently live and mounted by the kext it is temporarily "frozen";
.It
If the disk partitions are of type Apple_CoreStorage then they are switched
offline (which dissociates the kext from the old metadata);
.It
The CoreStorage metadata is locally parsed and loaded;
.It
All object UUIDs are located, and new UUIDs generated for classes as set by the
.Fl I
and
.Fl X
options;
.It
UUIDs are re-written to disk;
.It
A post-modification
.Pa fsck_cs
is performed to ensure the final structure is consistent;
.It
Finally, any disk partitions taken offline are restored to Apple_CoreStorage
(which will reload the kext with the new UUID metadata).
.El
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
The
.Nm
utility exits with 0 if the CoreStorage logical volume group was modified
as directed, and with >0 if it was unable to do so.  Any error message is
written to stderr.
.Sh BUGS
.Nm
cannot modify the LVF UUID if there are any encrypted LVs inside it.  Any
mounted LVs must be manually unmounted before invocation.
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
utility first appeared in OS X 10.8.1.
