.\"
.\" (c) 2005 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" @APPLE_LICENSE_HEADER_START@
.\" 
.\" The contents of this file constitute Original Code as defined in and
.\" are subject to the Apple Public Source License Version 1.1 (the
.\" "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the
.\" License.  Please obtain a copy of the License at
.\" http://www.apple.com/publicsource and read it before using this file.
.\" 
.\" This Original Code and all software distributed under the License are
.\" distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AND APPLE HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL SUCH WARRANTIES,
.\" INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.  Please see the
.\" License for the specific language governing rights and limitations
.\" under the License.
.\"
.\" @APPLE_LICENSE_HEADER_END@
.\"
.Dd October 4, 2005
.Dt KERNELEVENTAGENT 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm KernelEventAgent
.Nd utility to provide user interface on behalf of the kernel
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl dv
.Op Fl f Ar fsname
.Op Fl t Ar timeout
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility is responsible for displaying disk full and unresponsive file server
messages.
It is not intended to be run directly, but rather started by the system.
The few options it has are intended as debugging aids.
Typically, allowing the system to start
.Nm
by itself, without any additional options, is the ideal configuration.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl d
Debug mode.
Do not fork into a detached process, and write messages to stderr as well as
the system log.
.It Fl v
Verbose mode.
System messages of LOG_INFO level and LOG_DEBUG level are raised to the
LOG_NOTICE level.
.It Fl f Ar fsname
The file system identified by fsname is also passed the timeout value via the
VFS_CTL_TIMEO sysctl.
.It Fl t Ar timeout
The timeout value, specified in seconds, is the amount of time to wait before
the user is notified again after dismissing notice of an unresponsive network
mount point.
.El
