.Dd 25 November, 2013
.Dt launchd 8 
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME
.Nm launchd
.Nd System wide and per-user daemon/agent manager
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm 
manages processes, both for the system as a whole and for individual users.
.Pp
The primary and preferred interface to
.Nm
is via the
.Xr launchctl 1
tool which (among other options) allows the user or administrator to load and
unload jobs. Where possible, it is preferable for jobs to launch on demand based
on criteria specified in their respective configuration files.
.Pp
.Nm
also manages XPC services that are bundled within applications and frameworks on
the system.
.Pp
During boot
.Nm
is invoked by the kernel to run as the first process on the system and to
further bootstrap the rest of the system.
.Pp
You cannot invoke
.Nm
directly.
.Sh NOTES
On Darwin operating systems, the canonical way to launch a daemon is through
.Nm launchd
as opposed to traditional POSIX and POSIX-like mechanisms or mechanisms provided
in earlier versions of OS X. These alternate methods should be considered
deprecated and not suitable for new projects.
.Pp
In the
.Nm launchd
lexicon, a daemon is, by definition, a system-wide service of which there is one
instance for all clients. An agent is a service that runs on a per-user basis.
Daemons should not attempt to display UI or interact directly with a user's
login session. Any and all work that involves interacting with a user should be
done through agents.
.Pp
XPC services which are marked with a ServiceType of System are functionally
equivalent to daemons and run in the same environment, sharing the same Mach
bootstrap namespace. XPC services which are marked with a ServiceType of User
are equivalent to agents with the LimitLoadToSessionType key specifying the
Background session and run in the same environment, sharing the same Mach
bootstrap namespace. See
.Xr launchd.plist 5
for more information about user sessions.
.Pp
On Darwin platforms, a user environment includes a specific Mach bootstrap
subset, audit session and other characteristics not recognized by POSIX.
Therefore, making the appropriate
.Xr setuid 2
and
.Xr setgid 2
system calls is not sufficient to completely assume the identity for a given
user. Running a service as a
.Nm
agent or a per-user XPC service is the only way to run a process with a complete
identity of that user.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width "/System/Library/LaunchDaemons" -compact
.It Pa ~/Library/LaunchAgents
Per-user agents provided by the user.
.It Pa /Library/LaunchAgents
Per-user agents provided by the administrator.
.It Pa /Library/LaunchDaemons
System-wide daemons provided by the administrator.
.It Pa /System/Library/LaunchAgents
Per-user agents provided by Apple.
.It Pa /System/Library/LaunchDaemons
System-wide daemons provided by Apple.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.Xr launchctl 1 ,
.Xr launchd.plist 5 ,
.Sh DEVELOPER DOCUMENTATION
The Daemons and Services Programming Guide can be found at the following URL:
.Pp
.Nm http://developer.apple.com/documentation/MacOSX/Conceptual/BPSystemStartup/index.html
