.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 Apple Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" @APPLE_LICENSE_HEADER_START@
.\" 
.\" This file contains Original Code and/or Modifications of Original Code
.\" as defined in and that are subject to the Apple Public Source License
.\" Version 2.0 (the 'License'). You may not use this file except in
.\" compliance with the License. Please obtain a copy of the License at
.\" http://www.opensource.apple.com/apsl/ and read it before using this
.\" file.
.\" 
.\" The Original Code and all software distributed under the License are
.\" distributed on an 'AS IS' basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AND APPLE HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL SUCH WARRANTIES,
.\" INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, QUIET ENJOYMENT OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.
.\" Please see the License for the specific language governing rights and
.\" limitations under the License.
.\" 
.\" @APPLE_LICENSE_HEADER_END@
.\"
.Dd February 20, 2014
.Dt NFS4MAPID 8
.Os 
.Sh NAME
.Nm nfs4mapid
.Nd shows NFSv4 mappings from uids or gids to
over the wire string names and string names to uids or gids.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm nfs4mapid
.Op Fl G 
.Ar string name
.Nm nfs4mapid
.Fl u Ar uid
.Nm nfs4mapid
.Fl g Ar gid
.Sh DESCRIPTION
In the first form,
.Nm nfs4mapid
shows translations from
.Tn NFSv4
string representations of users, and with the 
.Fl G
option, groups to the corresponding local uids and gids.
In the second form, it shows the mapping from uids to the
.Tn NFSv4
user@domain form.
Similarly, in the last form it shows the mapping from gids to
the
.Tn NFSv4
group@domain.
.Nm nfs4mapid
will also show the intermediate GUID translations used. The 
.Tn NFSv4
domain name should be set with
.Xr dscl 1 .
See
.Xr opendirectory 8 
for instructions.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl G
Map an
.Tn NFSv4
string to a gid.
.It Fl u
Map a uid to an
.Tn NFSv4
user@domain string.
.It Fl g
Map a gid to an
.Tn NFSv4
group@domain string.
.El
.Sh NOTES
.Nm
uses a privileged nfs client system call to pass the translation request down to the kernel, so results will be the same as a request coming from an NFSv4 server. Because of this,
.Nm
must be run with root privileges.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr dscl 1 ,
.Xr opendirectoryd 8 ,
.Xr mount_nfs 8 ,
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
utility first appeared in OSX 10.10
