.TH PICKUP 8 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
pickup
\-
Postfix local mail pickup
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
\fBpickup\fR [generic Postfix daemon options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
The \fBpickup\fR(8) daemon waits for hints that new mail has been
dropped into the \fBmaildrop\fR directory, and feeds it into the
\fBcleanup\fR(8) daemon.
Ill-formatted files are deleted without notifying the originator.
This program expects to be run from the \fBmaster\fR(8) process
manager.
.SH "STANDARDS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
None. The \fBpickup\fR(8) daemon does not interact with
the outside world.
.SH "SECURITY"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
The \fBpickup\fR(8) daemon is moderately security sensitive. It runs
with fixed low privilege and can run in a chrooted environment.
However, the program reads files from potentially hostile users.
The \fBpickup\fR(8) daemon opens no files for writing, is careful about
what files it opens for reading, and does not actually touch any data
that is sent to its public service endpoint.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Problems and transactions are logged to \fBsyslogd\fR(8).
.SH BUGS
.ad
.fi
The \fBpickup\fR(8) daemon copies mail from file to the \fBcleanup\fR(8)
daemon.  It could avoid message copying overhead by sending a file
descriptor instead of file data, but then the already complex
\fBcleanup\fR(8) daemon would have to deal with unfiltered user data.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
As the \fBpickup\fR(8) daemon is a relatively long-running process, up
to an hour may pass before a \fBmain.cf\fR change takes effect.
Use the command "\fBpostfix reload\fR" command to speed up a change.

The text below provides only a parameter summary. See
\fBpostconf\fR(5) for more details including examples.
.SH "CONTENT INSPECTION CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBcontent_filter (empty)\fR"
After the message is queued, send the entire message to the
specified \fItransport:destination\fR.
.IP "\fBreceive_override_options (empty)\fR"
Enable or disable recipient validation, built-in content
filtering, or address mapping.
.SH "MISCELLANEOUS CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
The default location of the Postfix main.cf and master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBipc_timeout (3600s)\fR"
The time limit for sending or receiving information over an internal
communication channel.
.IP "\fBline_length_limit (2048)\fR"
Upon input, long lines are chopped up into pieces of at most
this length; upon delivery, long lines are reconstructed.
.IP "\fBmax_idle (100s)\fR"
The maximum amount of time that an idle Postfix daemon process waits
for an incoming connection before terminating voluntarily.
.IP "\fBmax_use (100)\fR"
The maximal number of incoming connections that a Postfix daemon
process will service before terminating voluntarily.
.IP "\fBprocess_id (read-only)\fR"
The process ID of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBprocess_name (read-only)\fR"
The process name of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBqueue_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
The location of the Postfix top-level queue directory.
.IP "\fBsyslog_facility (mail)\fR"
The syslog facility of Postfix logging.
.IP "\fBsyslog_name (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
The mail system name that is prepended to the process name in syslog
records, so that "smtpd" becomes, for example, "postfix/smtpd".
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
cleanup(8), message canonicalization
sendmail(1), Sendmail-compatible interface
postdrop(1), mail posting agent
postconf(5), configuration parameters
master(5), generic daemon options
master(8), process manager
syslogd(8), system logging
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
The Secure Mailer license must be distributed with this software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
