.\"	$OpenBSD: rpcinfo.8,v 1.2 1996/06/26 05:38:44 deraadt Exp $
.\"	from: @(#)rpcinfo.8c	2.2 88/08/03 4.0 RPCSRC; from 1.24 88/02/25 SMI
.\"
.ds Fll \\fB\\-\\-\\$1\\fP
.ds Fls \\fB\\-\\$1\\fP
.Dd November 14, 2012
.Dt RPCINFO 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm rpcinfo
.Nd report RPC information
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm rpcinfo
.Op \*[Fll rpcbvers] Ar version
.Op Fl m \*(Ba Fl s
.Op Ar host
.Nm rpcinfo
.Op \*[Fll rpcbvers] Ar version
.Fl T Ar netid
.Ar host
.Ar program
.Op Ar version
.Nm rpcinfo
.Op \*[Fll rpcbvers] Ar version
.Fl a Ar "server address"
.Fl T Ar netid
.Ar program
.Op Ar version
.Nm rpcinfo
.Op \*[Fll rpcbvers] Ar version
.Fl b
.Op Fl T Ar netid
.Ar program version
.Nm rpcinfo
.Op \*[Fll rpcbvers] Ar version
.Fl d
.Op Fl T Ar netid
.Ar program version
.Nm rpcinfo
.Fl l
.Op Fl T Ar netid
.Op Ar host
.Ar program version
.Nm rpcinfo
.Op \*[Fll rpcbvers] Ar version
\*[Fll getaddr] 
.Op Fl T Ar netid
.Op Ar host
.Ar program version
.Nm rpcinfo
\*[Fll getversaddr] 
.Op Fl T Ar netid
.Op Ar host
.Ar program version
.Nm rpcinfo
\*[Fll indirect]
.Op Fl T Ar netid
.Op host
.Ar program version
.Nm rpcinfo
.Op \*[Fll rpcbvers] Ar version
\*[Fll time]
.Op Fl T Ar netid
.Op Ar host
.Nm rpcinfo
.Bro \*[Fll help] \*(Ba Fl h Brc
.Nm rpcinfo
.Fl p
.Op Ar host
.Nm rpcinfo
.Op Fl n Ar portnum
.Fl u Ar host
.Ar program
.Op Ar version
.Nm rpcinfo
.Op Fl n Ar portnum
.Fl t Ar host 
.Ar program
.Op Ar version
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm rpcinfo
makes an
.Tn RPC
call to an
.Tn RPC
server and reports what it finds. Unless otherwise specified or
noted below the default
.Nm rpcbind
protocol version is 3.
With no or only generic options, call
the
.Nm rpcbind
dump procedure on the specified 
.Ar host
or
.Dq localhost
if
.Ar host
is not specified and display the results.
For versions 3 and 4 display the program number, 
the version, the 
.Dq netid ,
the universal address that the services is listening on,
symbolic name of the program if known, and then the 
owner that registered the 
.Aq program, version, netid, address
tuple.
For version 2 of the protocol list the program, version, protocol, port, and symbolic program name.
.Em See the \*[Fll summary] option below for a typically more useful output.
.Nm rpcbind
defaults the 
.Ar netid
to
.Dq tcp
for the dump procedure.
.Pp
The
.Ar program
argument can be either a name or a number.
.Pp
If a version is specified, rpcinfo attempts to call that version of the specified program.  Otherwise, if the version is optional
.Nm rpcinfo
attempts to find all the registered version numbers for the specified program by calling version 0 (which is presumed not to exist; if it does exist, rpcinfo attempts to obtain this information by calling an extremely high version number instead) and attempts to call each registered version.
.Pp
A required transport option is needed for the second and third lines
of the synopsis which is used to ping, i.e.\&, call the null procedure of the specified program and version. The results will be
displayed on stdout. If version is not specified each valid version found as described above will be called.
The third synopsis will use the supplied universal address over the transport specified by
.Ar netid
to call the null procedure of the specified
.Ar program
in the same manner as above. In addition the last two lines of the synopsis can
.Dq ping
the server as described in the 
.Nm Legacy Options
section below.
.Sh GENERIC OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It \*[Fll rpcbvers] Ar version
Attempt to use the supplied
.Nm rpcbind
.Ar version.
Note some options below
are version specific and this option may be ignored. If specifying version 2
.Pq Nm portmapper ,
.Ar netid
below must be one of 
.Dq udp 
or
.Dq tcp .
.It Fl T Ar netid
Specify the netid to use. Supported netids are 
.Dq udp ,
.Dq tcp ,
.Dq udp6 ,
and
.Dq tcp6 .
.It \*[Fll timeout] Ar seconds 
Timeout used in creating client handles and the client calls
to
.Nm rpcbind.
Current default is 12 seconds.
.El
.Pp
Generic options may be supplied with any of the
.Nm rpcinfo
options below, though some options will override their values.
.Sh LEGACY OPTIONS
.Pp
The options below imply version 2
.Pq Nm portmapper
.Nm rpcbind
calls. They are compatible with older versions of 
.Nm rpcinfo .
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Bro Fl p \*(Ba \*[Fls portmap] Brc Oo Fl T Ar netid Oc Op Ar host
Probe the portmapper on
.Ar host ,
and print a list of all registered
.Tn RPC
programs.  If
.Ar host
is not specified, it defaults to the value
.Dq localhost .
.It Bro Fl u \*(Ba \*[Fls udpping] Brc Ar host Ar program Op Ar version
Make an
.Tn RPC
call to the
.Tn NULL
procedure of
.Ar program
on the specified
.Ar host
using
.Tn UDP ,
and report whether a response was received.
.It Bro Fl t \*(Ba \*[Fls tcpping] Brc Ar host Ar program Op Ar version
Make an
.Tn RPC
call to the
.Tn NULL
procedure of
.Ar program
on the specified
.Ar host
using
.Tn TCP ,
and report whether a response was received.
.It Bro Fl n \*(Ba \*[Fls portnum] Brc Ar portnum
Use
.Ar portnum
as the port number for the
.Fl t
and
.Fl u
options instead of the port number given by the portmapper.
.El
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Bro Fl b \*(Ba \*[Fls broadcast] Brc Ar program Ar version
Make an
.Tn RPC
multicast over
.Tn INET6
to the 
.Tn RPCB_MULTICAST_ADDR ,
.Dq FF02::202 ,
and broadcast over
.Tn INET
using
.Tn UDP
to procedure 0 of the specified
.Ar program
and
.Ar version
and report all hosts that respond.
.Nm rpcifno
will first use
.Tn RPCBIND
version 3
and then call the broadcast procedure of the
.Nm portmapper
protocol to collect older hosts. There is a reply cache
kept so duplicates will not be returned unless the cache fills.
.Pp
Note that the
.Fl b
option by its self is compatible with the older
.Nm portmapper .
However, specifying 
\*[Fll rpcbvers] 2
will short circuit the
.Nm rpcbind
version 3 calls and only call the
.Nm portmapper .
.It Bro Fl d \*(Ba \*[Fls delete] Brc Oo Fl T Ar netid Oc Ar program Ar version
Delete registration for the
.Tn RPC
service of the specified
.Ar program
and
.Ar version .
If the 
.Ar netid
is specified, only unregister the 
.Ar program
and
.Ar version
over that transport.
This option can be exercised only by the super-user or the user who
registered the the
.Tn RPC
service.
.It \*[Fll getaddr] Oo Fl T Ar netid Oc Oo Ar host Oc Ar program Ar version
Get the universal address that the client can use to contact the
.Ar program
and
.Ar version
from
.Ar host
over 
.Ar netid .
If host is not specified
.Ar localhost
is assumed. If
.Ar netid
is not specified
.Dq udp
is assumed. If the specified
.Ar version
is not available but some other version is,
return the universal address for one of those versions of the program.
.It \*[Fll getversaddr] Oo Fl T Ar netid Oc Oo Ar host Oc Ar program Ar version
Get the universal address that the client can use to contact the 
.Ar program
and
.Ar version
from
.Ar host
over
.Ar netid .
If host is not specified 
.Ar localhost
is assumed. If
.Ar netid
is not specified
.Dq udp
is assumed. If the version is not available then that will be indicated. This requires the remote
.Nm rpcbind
support version\ 4.
.It Fl h
Print out the synopsis of this program.
.It \*[Fll help]
Print out the synopsis and an explanation of the options.
.It \*[Fll indirect] Oo Fl T Ar netid Oc Oo Ar host Oc Ar program Ar version
Send a indirect call to the null procedure of
.Ar program
and
.Ar version
on the specified
.Ar host
or localhost.
This requires the remote
.Nm rpcbind
to support version\ 4.
.It Bro  Fl l \*(Ba \*[Fls list] Brc  Oo Fl T Ar netid Oc Oo Ar host Oc Ar program Ar version
List the transports available over the transport family specified
by the
.Ar netid
for the given
.Ar program
and
.Ar version
on the optional
.Ar host
or localhost if not specified.
Requires the remote
.Nm rpcbind
to support version 4.
The default transport family is
.Tn INET .
.It Bro Fl m \*(Ba \*[Fls metrics] Brc
Print the metrics of
.Nm rpcbind
daemon for the specified
.Ar host
or
.Ar localhost
if not specified.
Requires support for
.Nm rpcbind
version\ 4 on the remote.
.It Bro Fl s \*(Ba \*[Fls summary] Brc
Print a summary of programs registered on
.Ar host
or
.Dq localhost
if host is not specified.
For each program registered list any versions followed by any transports supported by that program. Try to list the symbolic name of the transport and the owner that registered the program.
.It \*[Fll time] Op host
Return 
.Nm rpcbind's
version of time on the specified
.Ar host.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
To show all of the
.Tn RPC
services registered on the local machine use:
.Pp
.Dl example% rpcinfo
.Pp
To show all of the
.Tn RPC
services registered on the machine named
.Ar klaxon
use:
.Pp
.Dl example% rpcinfo klaxon
.Pp
More usefully to show the services registered on
.Ar klaxon
use:
.Pp
.Dl example% rpcinfo -s klaxon
.Pp
To show all of the
.Tn RPC
services from an older host only running version 2 of 
.Nm rpcbind
on a host named
.Ar horn
use:
.Pp
.Dl example% rpcinfo -p horn
.Pp
To show all machines on the local net that are running the NFS
File service use:
.Pp
.Dl example% rpcinfo -b nfs 'version' 
.Pp
where 'version' is one of the current nfs versions of interest.
.Pp
To delete the registration for version 1 of the
.Nm rquotad
service use:
.Pp
.Dl example% rpcinfo -d rquotad 1
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr rpc 5 ,
.Xr rpcbind 8
.Rs
.%T "RPC Programming Guide"
.Re
.Rs
.%T "RFC 1833 Binding Protocols for ONC RPC Version 2"
.Re
.Rs
.%T "RFC 5665 IANA Considerations for Remote Procedure Call (RPC) Network Identifiers and Universal Address Formats"
.Re
.Sh BUGS
In summary mode the maximum number of versions and transports is 16. The first 16 versions and the first 16 transports received from the server are displayed and the rest is silently ignored.
.Pp
In the second synopsis line, for 
a host that is specified as a link-local
.Tn INET6
address will always return 
.Dq no route to host .
.Pp
In releases prior to SunOS 3.0, the Network File System (NFS) did not
register itself with the portmapper;
.Nm rpcinfo
cannot be used to make
.Tn RPC
calls to the
.Tn NFS
server on hosts running such releases.
