.TH AEA 1
.SH NAME
aea \- Manipulate Apple Encrypted Archives
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B aea \fBcommand\fR [\fBoptions\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B aea creates and manipulates Apple Encrypted Archives (AEA)
.SH VERBS
.P
\fBencrypt\fR\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ Create a new AEA archive
.P
\fBdecrypt\fR\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ Decrypt an AEA archive
.P
\fBsign\fR\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ Sign an AEA archive
.P
\fBappend\fR\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ Append data to an existing AEA archive
.P
\fBid\fR\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ Identify an AEA archive

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BR \-v
Increase verbosity. Default is silent operation.
.TP
.BR \-h
Print usage and exit.
.TP
.BR \-i\ \fIinput_file\fR
Input file. Default is \fIstdin\fR.
.TP
.BR \-o\ \fIoutput_file\fR
Output file. Default is \fIstdout\fR.
.TP
.BR \-profile\ \fIprofile\fR
.br
Archive profile, one of the following (both index and id are allowed):
.br
0: hkdf_sha256_hmac__none__ecdsa_p256              \- no encryption, signed
.br
1: hkdf_sha256_aesctr_hmac__symmetric__none        \- symmetric key encryption
.br
2: hkdf_sha256_aesctr_hmac__symmetric__ecdsa_p256  \- symmetric key encryption, signed
.br
3: hkdf_sha256_aesctr_hmac__ecdhe_p256__none       \- ECDHE encryption
.br
4: hkdf_sha256_aesctr_hmac__ecdhe_p256__ecdsa_p256 \- ECDHE encryption, signed
.br
5: hkdf_sha256_aesctr_hmac__scrypt__none           \- scrypt encryption (password based)
.TP
.BR \-a\ \fIalgorithm\fR
Compression algorithm used when creating archives. One of \fIlzfse\fR, \fIlzma\fR, \fIlz4\fR, \fIzlib\fR, \fIcopy\fR.
Default is \fIlzfse\fR.
.TP
.BR \-b\ \fIblock_size\fR
Block size used for compression+encryption, a number with optional \fIb\fR, \fIk\fR, \fIm\fR, \fIg\fR suffix (bytes are assumed if no suffix is specified).
Default is \fI1m\fR.
.TP
.BR \-t\ \fIworker_threads\fR
Number of worker threads. Default is the number of physical CPU on the running machine.
.TP
.BR \-checksum\ \fIchecksum_mode\fR
Block checksum mode, one of \fInone\fR, \fImurmur64\fR, \fIsha256\fR.
.TP
.BR \-key\ \fIkey_file\fR
File containing or receiving the symmetric encryption key.
.TP
.BR \-key\-value\ \fI<key>\fR
Symmetric encryption key, encoded either as \fIhex:...\fR, or \fIbase64:...\fR.
.TP
.BR \-key\-gen\fR
When creating a new archive, generate a new random high entropy symmetric key, and store it in the file specified by \fB-key\fR.
The new key is stored as \fIhex:...\fR in the file.
.TP
.BR \-password\ \fIpassword_file\fR
File containing or receiving the encryption password.
.TP
.BR \-password\-value\ \fI<password>\fR
Encryption password.
.TP
.BR \-password\-gen\fR
When creating a new archive, generate a new random high entropy password, and store it in the file specified by \fB-password\fR.
.TP
.BR \-auth\-data\-key\ \fI<string>\fR
Define the key for the next \fI-auth-data\fR or \fI-auth-data-value\fR option. If this option is specified at least once,
the auth data blob in the archive will be stored using the key->value format, and all occurrences of fI-auth-data\fR or
\fI-auth-data-value\fI must be preceded by a \fI-auth-data-key\fI.
.TP
.BR \-auth\-data\ \fIdata_file\fR
Insert the contents of \fIdata_file\fR in the container as authentication data. This option can be specified multiple times.
Authentication data is stored in plain text in the container, and can be used to store public key certificates for example.
.TP
.BR \-auth\-data\-value\ \fI<data>\fR
Insert the contents of \fIdata\fR (encoded either as \fIhex:...\fR, or \fIbase64:...\fR) in the container as authentication
data. This option can be specified multiple times. Authentication data is stored in plain text in the container, and can be
used to store public key certificates for example.
.TP
.BR \-sign\-pub\ \fIkey_file\fR
File containing the signature public key. Used to decrypt a signed container, or encrypt a container without signing it.
.TP
.BR \-sign\-priv\ \fIkey_file\fR
File containing the signature private key. Used to sign a container.
.TP
.BR \-recipient\-pub\ \fIkey_file\fR
File containing the recipient public key. Used to encrypt a container in the ECDHE modes.
.TP
.BR \-recipient\-priv\ \fIkey_file\fR
File containing the recipient private key. Used to decrypt a container in the ECDHE modes.
.TP
.BR \-master\-key\ \fIkey_file\fR
When creating a new container, if this option is given, the file will receive the container main key,
needed for future \fBappend\fR operations.  The main key is only intended to unlock an existing container
to append new data, and should be kept by the container creator.
.TP
.BR \-signature\-key\ \fIkey_file\fR
When creating an new signed container, if this option is given, the file will receive the signature encryption key.
if only the signature public key is passed with \fB-sign-pub\fR when creating a new signed container, the container
needs to be signed offline using the \fBsign\fR command. This requires both the signature private key \fB-sign-priv\fR,
and this signature encryption key.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Encrypt \fIfoo\fR into \fIfoo.aea\fR using a new random symmetric key stored in \fIfoo.key\fR
.PP
.RS
.B aea encrypt -profile hkdf_sha256_aesctr_hmac__symmetric__none -i foo -o foo.aea -key foo.key
.RE
.PP
Decrypt \fIfoo.aea\fR into \fIbar\fR
.PP
.RS
.B aea decrypt -i foo.aea -o bar -key foo.key
.RE
.PP
Alice encrypts and signs \fIfoo\fR into \fIfoo.aea\fR, so only Bob can decrypt it.
.PP
.RS
.B aea encrypt -profile hkdf_sha256_aesctr_hmac__ecdhe_p256__ecdsa_p256 -i foo -o foo.aea -sign-priv alice.priv -recipient-pub bob.pub
.RE
.PP
Bob decrypts \fIfoo.aea\fR into \fIbar\fR using his private key, and at the same time verifying Alice signed it.
.PP
.RS
.B aea decrypt -i foo.aea -o bar -sign-pub alice.pub -recipient-priv bob.priv
.RE
