.Dd Feb 10, 2021     \" DATE
.Dt DERQ 1           \" Program name and manual section number
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm derq
.\" Use .Nm macro to designate other names for the documented program.
.Nd Query and manipulate DER entitlements.
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Ar query
.Op Fl -pretty
.Op Fl -raw
.Op Fl f Ar format
.Op Fl i Ar input
.Op Fl o Ar output
.Aq query statements
.sp
.Nm
.Ar csops
.Op Fl p Ar pid
.Op Fl o Ar output
.Op Fl -xml 
.Aq query statements
.sp
.Nm
.Ar macho
.Op Fl i Ar input
.Op Fl o Ar output
.Op Fl -xml 
.Aq query statements
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
command queries DER encoded entitlements using the CoreEntitlements library.
.sp
It currently supports querying from a Mach-O, file / input stream, as well as directly from a process using
.Xr csops(2) .
.sp
After a succesful execution of the query statements on the 
.Ar input
,
.Nm
will output the active DER context to the
.Ar output.
.Pp                      \" Inserts a space
.Sh OPTIONS
A list of flags and their descriptions:
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Differs from above in tag removed
.It Fl -pretty                 \"-a flag as a list item
When specified,
.Nm
will print the active context in a textual representation to 
.Vt stderr .
.It Fl -raw
Signifies that the input might not be a DER encoded entitlements blob. This forces
.Nm
to treat the input as a raw DER object. Particularly this means that if a V1 entitlements is passed in, the active context will be set to the outer metadata object, and not the inner entitlements dictionary.
.It Fl -xml
Instruct the 
.Vt macho
or
.Vt csops
subcommands to query the embedded XML blob instead of the embedded DER blob.
.It Fl i Ar input
Allows you to specify which file should be used as the input.
If not specified "-" is assumed, which signfies that the input will follow on 
.Vt stdin .
.It Fl o Ar output
Allows you to specify which file should be used as the output.
If not specified "-" is assumed, which signfies that 
.Nm
should use
.Vt stdout
for output.
.It Fl p Ar pid
Specifies the pid of a running process from which
.Nm
should extract the DER entitlements blob to be used as input.
.It Fl f Ar format
Specifies what format the input is. If this flag isn't passed in DER is assumed. The other supported format is "xml."
.It Ar query statements ...
A space seperated list of operations to be exected left-to-right. The operation syntax is described in
.Sx SYNTAX .
.El
.Sh SYNTAX
.Tn DERQL
has very simplistic syntax that consists of a series of operations that are executed one after another. Execution stops either when the last operation is executed or an operation induces the execution engine into an invalid state.
There are many operations that can produce an invalid state, such as selecting a key that doesn't exist, or indexing an array past the bounds. Invalid state is also produced when a matching operation fails.
.Pp
Currently
.Nm
supports 4 operations:
.Bl -ohang -offset indent
.It Sy CESelectIndex
This operation selects an index in a zero indexed array. Any query statement that starts with a number character (0-9) implies the start of a
.Vt CESelectIndex
operation. Example
invocation:
invocatio:
.Pp
.Dl % derq query -i - -o - 1
.Pp
Will select the second element in the array passed in on
.Vt stdin
and output the selected value to
.Vt stdout .
.It Sy CESelectDictValue
This operation selects the value associated with the passed in key in the actively selected dictionary. Any query statement that does not imply any operation will be parsed as
.Vt CESelectDictValue.
Meaning that any query statement that starts with an alphanumeric sequence will be treated as a
.Vt CESelectDictValue
operation. Example:
.Pp
.Dl % derq query application-identifier
.Pp
Will select the value that belongs to the key
.Qq application-identifier
from the dictionary passed in on
.Vt stdin
and output the selected value to
.Vt stdout .
.It Sy CEMatchBool
This operation produces a valid output if the currently selected value is a boolean that has the value of
.Sy true.
Execution of this operation does not modify the selection. Any query statement that starts with "?" signifies this operation. Example:
.Pp
.Dl % derq query get-task-allow \& ?
.Pp
Will return a valid boolean only if the value for the key
.Qq get-task-allow
is a boolean and has the value of
.Sy true .
.It Sy CEMatchString
This operation produces a valid output if the currently selected value is a string that is equal to the passed in value.
Execution of this operation does not modify the selection. Any query statement that starts with "=" signifies this operation. Example:
.Pp
.Dl % derq query useractivity-team-identifier =appleiwork
.Pp
Will return a valid string only if the value for the key
.Qq useractivity-team-identifier
is exactly equal to
.Qq appleiwork .
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bl -ohang
.It To check if a file has the string Qo secret-entitlement Qc as the first value in an array in a file named Qo application.entitlements Qc :
.Dl % derq query -i application.entitlements 0 =secret-entitlement
.sp
.It To verify the DER entitlements validity of process 666 and to check that it has the Qo com.apple.application-identifier Qc equal to Qo P9Z4AN7VHQ.com.apple.radar.gm Qc :
.Dl % derq csops -pid 666 com.apple.application-identifier =P9Z4AN7VHQ.com.apple.radar.gm
.sp
.It To check if the first array element of a key Qo com.apple.security.iokit-user-client-class Qc is equal to Qo AppleImage4UserClient Qc :
.Dl % derq query com.apple.security.iokit-user-client-class 0 =AppleImage4UserClient
.El
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Ex -std
.Pp
In particular
.Vt EX_DATAERR
(66) is returned if the query could not be satisfied or resulted in invalid state.
.Sh NOTES
The correct pronunciation of
.Nm
sounds similar to "dirk".
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr codesign 1
