.TH ERROR 8 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
error
\-
Postfix error/retry mail delivery agent
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
\fBerror\fR [generic Postfix daemon options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
The Postfix \fBerror\fR(8) delivery agent processes delivery
requests from
the queue manager. Each request specifies a queue file, a sender
address, the reason for non\-delivery (specified as the
next\-hop destination), and recipient information.
The reason may be prefixed with an RFC 3463\-compatible detail code;
if none is specified a default 4.0.0 or 5.0.0 code is used instead.
This program expects to be run from the \fBmaster\fR(8) process
manager.

Depending on the service name in master.cf, \fBerror\fR
or \fBretry\fR, the server bounces or defers all recipients
in the delivery request using the "next\-hop" information
as the reason for non\-delivery. The \fBretry\fR service name is
supported as of Postfix 2.4.

Delivery status reports are sent to the \fBbounce\fR(8),
\fBdefer\fR(8) or \fBtrace\fR(8) daemon as appropriate.
.SH "SECURITY"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
The \fBerror\fR(8) mailer is not security\-sensitive. It does not talk
to the network, and can be run chrooted at fixed low privilege.
.SH "STANDARDS"
.na
.nf
RFC 3463 (Enhanced Status Codes)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Problems and transactions are logged to \fBsyslogd\fR(8).

Depending on the setting of the \fBnotify_classes\fR parameter,
the postmaster is notified of bounces and of other trouble.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Changes to \fBmain.cf\fR are picked up automatically as \fBerror\fR(8)
processes run for only a limited amount of time. Use the command
"\fBpostfix reload\fR" to speed up a change.

The text below provides only a parameter summary. See
\fBpostconf\fR(5) for more details including examples.
.IP "\fB2bounce_notice_recipient (postmaster)\fR"
The recipient of undeliverable mail that cannot be returned to
the sender.
.IP "\fBbounce_notice_recipient (postmaster)\fR"
The recipient of postmaster notifications with the message headers
of mail that Postfix did not deliver and of SMTP conversation
transcripts of mail that Postfix did not receive.
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
The default location of the Postfix main.cf and master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBdaemon_timeout (18000s)\fR"
How much time a Postfix daemon process may take to handle a
request before it is terminated by a built\-in watchdog timer.
.IP "\fBdelay_logging_resolution_limit (2)\fR"
The maximal number of digits after the decimal point when logging
sub\-second delay values.
.IP "\fBdouble_bounce_sender (double\-bounce)\fR"
The sender address of postmaster notifications that are generated
by the mail system.
.IP "\fBipc_timeout (3600s)\fR"
The time limit for sending or receiving information over an internal
communication channel.
.IP "\fBmax_idle (100s)\fR"
The maximum amount of time that an idle Postfix daemon process waits
for an incoming connection before terminating voluntarily.
.IP "\fBmax_use (100)\fR"
The maximal number of incoming connections that a Postfix daemon
process will service before terminating voluntarily.
.IP "\fBnotify_classes (resource, software)\fR"
The list of error classes that are reported to the postmaster.
.IP "\fBprocess_id (read\-only)\fR"
The process ID of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBprocess_name (read\-only)\fR"
The process name of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBqueue_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
The location of the Postfix top\-level queue directory.
.IP "\fBsyslog_facility (mail)\fR"
The syslog facility of Postfix logging.
.IP "\fBsyslog_name (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
A prefix that is prepended to the process name in syslog
records, so that, for example, "smtpd" becomes "prefix/smtpd".
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
qmgr(8), queue manager
bounce(8), delivery status reports
discard(8), Postfix discard delivery agent
postconf(5), configuration parameters
master(5), generic daemon options
master(8), process manager
syslogd(8), system logging
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
The Secure Mailer license must be distributed with this software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA

Wietse Venema
Google, Inc.
111 8th Avenue
New York, NY 10011, USA
