.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2002-2007 Apple Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" @APPLE_LICENSE_HEADER_START@
.\" 
.\" This file contains Original Code and/or Modifications of Original Code
.\" as defined in and that are subject to the Apple Public Source License
.\" Version 2.0 (the 'License'). You may not use this file except in
.\" compliance with the License. Please obtain a copy of the License at
.\" http://www.opensource.apple.com/apsl/ and read it before using this
.\" file.
.\" 
.\" The Original Code and all software distributed under the License are
.\" distributed on an 'AS IS' basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AND APPLE HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL SUCH WARRANTIES,
.\" INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, QUIET ENJOYMENT OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.
.\" Please see the License for the specific language governing rights and
.\" limitations under the License.
.\" 
.\" @APPLE_LICENSE_HEADER_END@
.\"
.\"	$NetBSD: rpc.lockd.8,v 1.5 2000/06/09 18:51:47 cgd Exp $
.\"	$FreeBSD: src/usr.sbin/rpc.lockd/rpc.lockd.8,v 1.14 2002/07/14 14:45:36 charnier Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1995 A.R.Gordon, andrew.gordon@net-tel.co.uk
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"
.Dd January 9, 2007
.Dt RPC.LOCKD 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm rpc.lockd
.Nd NFS file locking daemon
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl d Ar debug_level
.Op Fl g Ar grace_period
.Op Fl x Ar host_monitor_cache_period
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility provides monitored and unmonitored file and record locking services
in an NFS environment.
To monitor the status of hosts requesting locks,
the locking daemon typically operates in conjunction
with
.Xr rpc.statd 8 .
.Pp
The
.Nm
utility runs whenever its services are needed to support either the
NFS server (see
.Xr nfsd 8 )
or the NFS client (an NFS file system on which file locking requests
have been made).  The daemon will remain running until a short time
after its services are no longer needed to support either the NFS
client or NFS server.
.Nm
will also make sure that the
.Cm statd
service (on which it depends) is running.
.Pp
The following is a list of command line options that are available.
However, since
.Nm
is normally started by
.Xr launchd 8 ,
configuration of these options should be controlled using the equivalent
settings in the NFS configuration file.  See
.Xr nfs.conf 5
for a list of tunable parameters.
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl d
The
.Fl d
option causes debugging information to be written to syslog, recording
all RPC transactions to the daemon.
These messages are logged with level
.Dv LOG_DEBUG
and facility
.Dv LOG_DAEMON .
Specifying a
.Ar debug_level
of 1 results
in the generation of one log line per protocol operation.
Higher
debug levels can be specified, causing display of operation arguments
and internal operations of the daemon.
.It Fl g
The
.Fl g
option allows to specify the
.Ar grace period
(in seconds).
During the grace period
.Nm
only accepts requests from hosts which are reinitialising locks which
existed before the server restart.
Default is 45 seconds.
.It Fl x
The
.Fl x
option tells rpc.lockd how long to cache state records for monitored hosts.
Setting it to zero will disable the cache which will
make lock and unlock requests from a single client more expensive because
of additional interaction with the client's statd.  The default cache time
is 60 seconds.
.El
.Pp
Error conditions are logged to syslog, irrespective of the debug level,
using log level
.Dv LOG_ERR
and facility
.Dv LOG_DAEMON .
.Pp
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /usr/include/rpcsvc/nlm_prot.x -compact
.It Pa /var/run/lockd.pid
The pid of the current
.Cm lockd
daemon.
.It Pa /System/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.apple.lockd.plist
The
.Cm lockd
service's property list file for
.Xr launchd 8 .
.It Pa /usr/include/rpcsvc/nlm_prot.x
RPC protocol specification for the network lock manager protocol.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr nfs.conf 5 ,
.Xr rpc.statd 8 ,
.Xr syslog 3 ,
.Xr launchd 8
.Sh BUGS
The current implementation serialises locks requests that could be shared.
.Sh STANDARDS
The implementation is based on the specification in
.Rs
.%B "X/Open CAE Specification C218"
.%T "Protocols for X/Open PC Interworking: XNFS, Issue 4"
.%O ISBN 1 872630 66 9
.Re
.Sh HISTORY
A version of
.Nm
appeared in
.Tn SunOS
4.
