'\" t
.\" @(#)jmap.1 1.10 04/06/13 SMI;
.\" Copyright 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc. Tous droits réservés.
.\" 
.TH jmap 1 "13 June 2004"
.SH NAME
jmap \- memory map  
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B jmap 
[
.BI option 
] 
.I pid
.br
.B jmap
[
.I option 
] 
.I executable core
.br
.B jmap
[
.I option 
] [
.I server-id@
]
.I remote-hostname-or-IP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B jmap 
prints shared object memory maps or heap memory
details of a given process or core file
or remote debug server.
.LP
.B NOTE -
This utility is unsupported and may or may not be 
available in future versions of the J2SE SDK. 
.B jmap is not
currently available on Windows platforms or 
on the Linux Itanium platform. 
.SH PARAMETERS 
.if t .TP 20
.if n .TP 15
.BI option
Options are mutually exclusive. Option, if
used, shouldfollow immediately after the command name. 
.if t .TP 20
.if n .TP 15
.BI pid
process id for which the memory map is to be printed. 
The process must be a Java process. To get a 
list of Java processes
running on a machine, jps may be used. 
.if t .TP 20
.if n .TP 15
.BI executable
Java executable from which the core dump was produced.
.if t .TP 20
.if n .TP 15
.BI core
core file for which the memory map is to be printed.
.if t .TP 20
.if n .TP 15
.BI remote-hostname-or-IP
remote debug server's (see jsadebugd) hostname or IP address. 
.if t .TP 20
.if n .TP 15
.BI server-id
optional unique id, if multiple debug servers are 
running on the same remote host.
.SH OPTIONS
.if t .TP 20
.if n .TP 15
.BI " <no option>"
When no option is used 
.B jmap 
prints shared object mappings. For each shared object 
loaded in the target VM, start address,
the size of the mapping, and the full path of the 
shared object file are printed. This is similar 
to the Solaris
.B pmap 
utility. 
.if t .TP 20
.if n .TP 15
.BI \-heap
Prints a heap summary. GC algorithm used, heap 
configuration and generation wise heap usage are printed. 
.if t .TP 20
.if n .TP 15
.BI \-histo
Prints a histogram of the heap. For each Java class, 
number of objects, memory size in bytes, and 
fully qualified class names
are printed. VM internal class names are 
printed with '*' prefix. 
.if t .TP 20
.if n .TP 15
.BI \-permstat
Prints class loader wise statistics of permanent 
generation of Java heap. For each class loader, 
its name, liveness, address,
parent class loader, and the number and size of 
classes it has loaded are printed. 
.if t .TP 20
.if n .TP 15
.BI \-h
Prints a help message.
.if t .TP 20
.if n .TP 15
.BI \-help
Prints a help message.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pmap (1)
.BR jps (1)
.BR jsadebugd (1)
