'\" t
.\" @(#)unpack200.1 1.0 04/01/21 SMI;
.\" Copyright 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc. Tous droits réservés.
.\"
.TH unpack200 1 "14 July 2004"
.SH NAME
unpack200 \- JAR Unpacking tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B unpack200 
[ 
.IB OPTIONS 
] 
.I input\-file 
.I JAR\-file
.SH PARAMETERS
The options may be in any order. The last option on the 
command line supersedes all previously specified options. 
For a discussion of the options, see OPTIONS below.
.TP
.I input\-file  
name of the input file, which can be a pack200 gzip
file or a pack200 file. The input could also be JAR file 
produced by pack200(1) with an effort of 0. In this case, 
the contents of the input file will be copied to the 
output JAR file, with the Pack200 marker.
.TP
.I JAR\-file    
name of the output JAR file.     
.SH DESCRIPTION
The unpack200 tool is a native implementation that transforms a packed file
produced by pack200(1) into a JAR file.
.TP
Typical usage:
.LP
.RS
.ft 3
.nf
% unpack200 myarchive.pack.gz myarchive.jar
.fi
.ft 1
.RE
.LP
In this example, the myarchive.jar is produced from 
myarchive.pack.gz using the default unpack200 settings.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-H "value " \--deflate-hint= value
Sets the deflation to be true, false, or keep on all entries within a JAR file. 
The default mode is keep. If true or false, overrides the default behavior and 
sets the deflation mode on all entries within the output JAR file.
.SH Non-Standard Options
.TP
.B \-r \--remove-pack-file
Removes the input packed-file.
.TP
.B \-v \--verbose
Outputs minimal messages, multiple specification of this option
will output more verbose messages.
.TP	
.B \-q \--quiet
Specifies quiet operation with no messages.
.TP    	
.BI \-l "filename " \--log-file= filename
Specifies a log file to output messages.
.SH EXIT STATUS
The following exit values are returned:
.TP
.B 0 " Successful completion."
.TP
.B >0  " An error occurred."
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pack200 "(1), " jar "(1), " jarsigner "(1), " attributes (5)
.TP
For API specification and other related information:
http://java.sun.com/j2se/5.0/docs
.br
http://java.sun.com/j2se/5.0/docs/guide/deployment/deployment-guide/pack200.html
.SH NOTES:
This command should not be confused with \f3unpack\fP(1). They are distinctly
separate products.
.TP
The J2SE API Specification provided with the JDK release is the superseding
authority, in case of discrepancies.	 
