.\"
.\" cups-config man page for CUPS.
.\"
.\" Copyright © 2007-2019 by Apple Inc.
.\" Copyright © 1997-2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\" Licensed under Apache License v2.0.  See the file "LICENSE" for more
.\" information.
.\"
.TH cups-config 1 "CUPS" "26 April 2019" "Apple Inc."
.SH NAME
cups\-config \- get cups api, compiler, directory, and link information.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cups\-config
.I \-\-api\-version
.br
.B cups\-config
.I \-\-build
.br
.B cups\-config
.I \-\-cflags
.br
.B cups\-config
.I \-\-datadir
.br
.B cups\-config
.I \-\-help
.br
.B cups\-config
.I \-\-ldflags
.br
.B cups\-config
[
.I \-\-image
] [
.I \-\-static
]
.I \-\-libs
.br
.B cups\-config
.I \-\-serverbin
.br
.B cups\-config
.I \-\-serverroot
.br
.B cups-config
.I \-\-version
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBcups-config\fR command allows application developers to determine the necessary command-line options for the compiler and linker, as well as the installation directories for filters, configuration files, and drivers.
All values are reported to the standard output.
.SH OPTIONS
The \fBcups-config\fR command accepts the following command-line options:
.TP 5
.B \-\-api-version
Reports the current API version (major.minor).
.TP 5
.B \-\-build
Reports a system-specific build number.
.TP 5
.B \-\-cflags
Reports the necessary compiler options.
.TP 5
.B \-\-datadir
Reports the default CUPS data directory.
.TP 5
.B \-\-help
Reports the program usage message.
.TP 5
.B \-\-ldflags
Reports the necessary linker options.
.TP 5
.B \-\-libs
Reports the necessary libraries to link to.
.TP 5
.B \-\-serverbin
Reports the default CUPS binary directory, where filters and backends are stored.
.TP 5
.B \-\-serverroot
Reports the default CUPS configuration file directory.
.TP 5
.B \-\-static
When used with \fI\-\-libs\fR, reports the static libraries instead of the default (shared) libraries.
.TP 5
.B \-\-version
Reports the full version number of the CUPS installation (major.minor.patch).
.SH EXAMPLES
Show the currently installed version of CUPS:
.nf

    cups-config \-\-version

.fi
Compile a simple one-file CUPS filter:
.nf

    cc `cups\-config \-\-cflags \-\-ldflags` \-o filter filter.c \\
        `cups\-config \-\-libs`
.fi
.SH DEPRECATED OPTIONS
The following options are deprecated but continue to work for backwards compatibility:
.TP 5
.B \-\-image
Formerly used to add the CUPS imaging library to the list of libraries.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cups (1),
CUPS Online Help (http://localhost:631/help)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \[co] 2007-2019 by Apple Inc.
