.lf 1 stdin
.TH LDAPWHOAMI 1 "2011/11/24" "OpenLDAP 2.4.28"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-2011 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldapwhoami \- LDAP who am i? tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ldapwhoami
[\c
.BR \-n ]
[\c
.BR \-v ]
[\c
.BR \-z ]
[\c
.BI \-d \ debuglevel\fR]
[\c
.BI \-D \ binddn\fR]
[\c
.BR \-W ]
[\c
.BI \-w \ passwd\fR]
[\c
.BI \-y \ passwdfile\fR]
[\c
.BI \-H \ ldapuri\fR]
[\c
.BI \-h \ ldaphost\fR]
[\c
.BI \-p \ ldapport\fR]
[\c
.BR \-e \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]]
[\c
.BR \-E \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]]
[\c
.BI \-O \ security-properties\fR]
[\c
.BR \-I ]
[\c
.BR \-Q ]
[\c
.BI \-U \ authcid\fR]
[\c
.BI \-R \ realm\fR]
[\c
.BR \-x ]
[\c
.BI \-X \ authzid\fR]
[\c
.BI \-Y \ mech\fR]
[\c
.BR \-Z [ Z ]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I ldapwhoami
implements the LDAP "Who Am I?" extended operation.
.LP
.B ldapwhoami
opens a connection to an LDAP server, binds, and performs a whoami
operation.  
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-n
Show what would be done, but don't actually perform the whoami operation.
Useful for
debugging in conjunction with \fB\-v\fP.
.TP
.B \-v
Run in verbose mode, with many diagnostics written to standard output.
.TP
.BI \-d \ debuglevel
Set the LDAP debugging level to \fIdebuglevel\fP.
.B ldapwhoami
must be compiled with LDAP_DEBUG defined for this option to have any effect.
.TP
.B \-x 
Use simple authentication instead of SASL.
.TP
.BI \-D \ binddn
Use the Distinguished Name \fIbinddn\fP to bind to the LDAP directory.
For SASL binds, the server is expected to ignore this value.
.TP
.B \-W
Prompt for simple authentication.
This is used instead of specifying the password on the command line.
.TP
.BI \-w \ passwd
Use \fIpasswd\fP as the password for simple authentication.
.TP
.BI \-y \ passwdfile
Use complete contents of \fIpasswdfile\fP as the password for
simple authentication.
.TP
.BI \-H \ ldapuri
Specify URI(s) referring to the ldap server(s); only the protocol/host/port
fields are allowed; a list of URI, separated by whitespace or commas
is expected.
.TP
.BI \-h \ ldaphost
Specify an alternate host on which the ldap server is running.
Deprecated in favor of \fB\-H\fP.
.TP
.BI \-p \ ldapport
Specify an alternate TCP port where the ldap server is listening.
Deprecated in favor of \fB\-H\fP.
.TP
.BI \-O \ security-properties
Specify SASL security properties.
.TP
.BR \-e \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]
.TP
.BR \-E \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]

Specify general extensions with \fB\-e\fP and search extensions with \fB\-E\fP.
\'\fB!\fP\' indicates criticality.

General extensions:
.nf
  [!]assert=<filter>   (an RFC 4515 Filter)
  [!]authzid=<authzid> ("dn:<dn>" or "u:<user>")
  [!]manageDSAit
  [!]noop
  ppolicy
  [!]postread[=<attrs>]        (a comma-separated attribute list)
  [!]preread[=<attrs>] (a comma-separated attribute list)
  abandon, cancel (SIGINT sends abandon/cancel; not really controls)
.fi

Search extensions:
.nf
  [!]domainScope                               (domain scope)
  [!]mv=<filter>                               (matched values filter)
  [!]pr=<size>[/prompt|noprompt]       (paged results/prompt)
  [!]sss=[\-]<attr[:OID]>[/[\-]<attr[:OID]>...]  (server side sorting)
  [!]subentries[=true|false]           (subentries)
  [!]sync=ro[/<cookie>]                        (LDAP Sync refreshOnly)
          rp[/<cookie>][/<slimit>]     (LDAP Sync refreshAndPersist)
.fi
.TP
.B \-I
Enable SASL Interactive mode.  Always prompt.  Default is to prompt
only as needed.
.TP
.B \-Q
Enable SASL Quiet mode.  Never prompt.
.TP
.BI \-U \ authcid
Specify the authentication ID for SASL bind. The form of the ID
depends on the actual SASL mechanism used.
.TP
.BI \-R \ realm
Specify the realm of authentication ID for SASL bind. The form of the realm
depends on the actual SASL mechanism used.
.TP
.BI \-X \ authzid
Specify the requested authorization ID for SASL bind.
.I authzid
must be one of the following formats:
.BI dn: "<distinguished name>"
or
.BI u: <username>
.TP
.BI \-Y \ mech
Specify the SASL mechanism to be used for authentication. If it's not
specified, the program will choose the best mechanism the server knows.
.TP
.BR \-Z [ Z ]
Issue StartTLS (Transport Layer Security) extended operation. If you use
\fB\-ZZ\fP, the command will require the operation to be successful.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
    ldapwhoami \-x \-D "cn=Manager,dc=example,dc=com" \-W
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ldap.conf (5),
.BR ldap (3),
.BR ldap_extended_operation (3)
.SH AUTHOR
The OpenLDAP Project <http://www.openldap.org/>
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.lf 1 ./../Project
.\" Shared Project Acknowledgement Text
.B "OpenLDAP Software"
is developed and maintained by The OpenLDAP Project <http://www.openldap.org/>.
.B "OpenLDAP Software"
is derived from University of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.  
.lf 181 stdin
