.Dd September 1, 2005
.Dt mdutil 1
.Os Mac\ OS X
.Sh NAME
.Nm mdutil
.Nd manage the metadata stores used by Spotlight
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl pEsav
.Op Fl i Ar on | off
.Ar mountPoint ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
command is useful for managing the metadata stores for mounted volumes.
.Pp
The following options are available:
.Bl -tag -width -a
.It Fl i Ar on | off
Sets the indexing status for the provided volumes to on or off.
Note that indexing may be delayed due to low disk space or other conditions.
.It Fl d
Disables Spotlight searches on the provided volume.
.It Fl E
This flag will cause each local store for the volumes indicated to be erased.
The stores will be rebuilt if appropriate.
.It Fl s
Display the indexing status of the listed volumes.
.It Fl a 
Apply command to all stores on all volumes.
.It Fl t
Resolve files from file id with an optional volume path or device id.
.It Fl p
Spotlight caches indexes of some network devices locally.
This option requests that a local caches be flushed to the appropriate network device.
.It Fl V Ar volume-path
Apply command to all stores on the specified volume.
.It Fl v
Print verbose information when available.
.It Fl r Ar plugins
Ask the server to reimport files for UTIs claimed by the listed plugin.
.It Fl L Ar volume-path
List the directory contents of the Spotlight index on the specified volume.
.It Fl P Ar volume-path
Dump the VolumeConfig.plist for the specified volume.
.It Fl X Ar volume-path
Remove the Spotlight index directory on the specified volume.  This does not disable indexing.
Spotlight will reevaluate volume when it is unmounted and remounted, the
machine is rebooted, or an explicit index command such as 'mdutil -i' or 'mdutil -E'
run for the volume.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mdfind 1 ,
.Xr mds 8 ,
.Xr mdimport 1
