.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999-2011 Apple Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" @APPLE_LICENSE_HEADER_START@
.\" 
.\" This file contains Original Code and/or Modifications of Original Code
.\" as defined in and that are subject to the Apple Public Source License
.\" Version 2.0 (the 'License'). You may not use this file except in
.\" compliance with the License. Please obtain a copy of the License at
.\" http://www.opensource.apple.com/apsl/ and read it before using this
.\" file.
.\" 
.\" The Original Code and all software distributed under the License are
.\" distributed on an 'AS IS' basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AND APPLE HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL SUCH WARRANTIES,
.\" INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, QUIET ENJOYMENT OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.
.\" Please see the License for the specific language governing rights and
.\" limitations under the License.
.\" 
.\" @APPLE_LICENSE_HEADER_END@
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)nfsstat.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\"
.Dd January 11, 2011
.Dt NFSSTAT 1
.Os BSD 4.4
.Sh NAME
.Nm nfsstat
.Nd display
.Tn NFS
statistics
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl cseuv
.Op Fl w Ar wait
.Op Fl n Ar net|user
.Op Fl m [ Ar mountpath ]
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
displays statistics kept about
.Tn NFS
client and server activity, active user activity,
exported directories, and mount information.
In the absence of any options,
.Nm
displays NFS client and server statistics.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl c
Show NFS client statistics.
.It Fl e
Show NFS server exported directory statistics.
.It Fl m [ Ar mountpath ]
Show NFS mount information.
.It Fl s
Show NFS server statistics.
.It Fl u
Show NFS server active user statistics.
.It Fl w Ar wait
Display a shorter summary at
.Ar wait
second intervals.
.It Fl n Ar net|user
Show network addresses as numbers, or show users as uid numbers.
This option can appear multiple times.
.It Fl v
Show additional information (if available).
.El
.Sh OUTPUT
The data fields that
.Nm
displays for each set of statistics are:
.Bl -tag -width "xx"
.\" ========
.It Cm Client Information:
Statistics for NFS file system mounts.
.Bl -tag -width "xx"
.It RPC Counts
Counts of the RPC calls made to each of the NFS protocol
procedures.
.It RPC Info
Statistics for NFS RPC calls:
.Bl -tag -width "xxx"
.It TimedOut
RPC calls that timed out, perhaps to a slow or dead server.
.It Invalid
Invalid RPC replies.
.It X Replies
RPC replies received that did not have calls pending.
.It Retries
RPC calls that were retried.
.It Requests
Total number of RPC calls made.
.El
.It Cache Info
Statistics on NFS client-side cache performance:
.Bl -tag -width "xxx"
.It Attr Hits/Misses
Performance of the NFS file attribute cache.
.It Lkup Hits/Misses
Performance of the directory name lookup cache.
.It BioR Hits/Misses
Performance of block cache for reads.
.It BioW Hits/Misses
Performance of block cache for writes.
.It BioRL Hits/Misses
Performance of symbolic link cache.
.It BioD Hits/Misses
Performance of directory cache.
.It DirE Hits/Misses
Performance of directory offset cache.
.El
.El
.\" ========
.It Cm Server Information:
Statistics for the NFS server.
.Bl -tag -width "xx"
.It RPC Counts
Counts of RPC calls on each of the NFS server's procedures are recorded here.
.It Server Ret-Failed
RPC errors returned by the server.
.It Server Faults
Errors in the NFS server.
.It Server Cache Stats
Statistics from the NFS server's RPC duplicate request cache:
.Bl -tag -width "xxx"
.It Inprog
Calls already in progress.
.It Idem
Cache hits for idempotent procedures.
.It Non-idem
Cache hits for non-idempotent procedures.
.It Misses
Cache Misses.
.El
.It Server Write Gathering
These statistics describe the efficiency of
the NFS server's write gathering feature.
.Bl -tag -width "xxx"
.It WriteOps
Write operations to disk.
.It WriteRPC
Write operations received by the server.
.It Opsaved
Write operations that were gathered (WriteRPC - WriteOps)
.El
.El
.\" ========
.It Cm NFS Server Exported Directory Information:
Statistics for each exported directory on the NFS server.
.Bl -tag -width "xxx"
.It NFS Requests
Count of NFS requests processed by an exported directory.
.It Bytes Read
Count of bytes read from an exported directory.
.It Bytes Written
Count of bytes written to an exported directory.
.El
.\" ========
.It Cm NFS Server Active User Information:
List of active NFS users and statistics on the NFS server.
.Bl -tag -width "xxx"
.It NFS Requests
Count of NFS requests received from an active user.
.It Bytes Read
Count of bytes read by an active user.
.It Bytes Written
Count of bytes written by an active user.
.It Idle
Amount of time an active user has been idle.
.It User
Name (or uid if
.Fl n Ar user
was given) of active user.
.It IP Address
Host name (or network address if
.Fl n Ar net
was given) of client machine.
.El
.\" ========
.It Cm NFS Mount Information:
Information about the given NFS mount (or all NFS mounts).
.Bl -tag -width "xxx"
.It The path mounted on and the server:/path that is mounted.
.It Mount arguments originally passed in to the mount.
.It Current mount parameter values and status information.
.El
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr netstat 1 ,
.Xr iostat 8 ,
.Xr mount_nfs 8 ,
.Xr nfsd 8
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm nfsstat
command appears in
.Bx 4.4 .
