.Dd September 15, 2010 
.Dt pkgbuild 1 
.Os Mac OS X
.\"																				NAME 
.Sh NAME
.Nm pkgbuild
.Nd Build an OS X Installer component package from on-disk files
.\"																				SYNOPSIS
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op options
.Cm --root Ar root-path
.Op Cm --component-plist Ar plist-path
.Ar package-output-path
.Nm
.Cm --analyze
.Cm --root Ar root-path
.Ar plist-output-path
.Nm
.Op options
.Brq Cm --component Ar component-path
.Ar package-output-path
.\"																				DESCRIPTION
.Sh DESCRIPTION
A 
.Dq component package
contains payload to be installed by the OS X Installer. Although a component package
can be installed on its own, it is typically incorporated into a product archive,
along with a
.Dq distribution
and localized resources, using
.Xr productbuild 1 .
.Pp
.Em To create a product archive for submission to the Mac App Store,
do not use 
.Nm .
Instead, use
.Xr productbuild 1
directly.
.Pp
.Nm
has three different modes, as shown in the 
.Sx SYNOPSIS
above:
.Bl -enum
.It
.Em Package a complete destination root.
When you use
.Xr xcodebuild 1
with the
.Em install
action, the result is a destination root, either under
.Pa /tmp ,
or in whatever location you specify with the Xcode
.Ev DSTROOT
setting. Use the
.Cm --root
option to specify that destination root directory to
.Nm ,
and the entire contents of the directory tree will be included in the output package.
.It
.Em Create a template component property list (analyze mode).
You point
.Nm
to a destination root as above, but instead of outputting a package,
.Nm
outputs a component property list (see
.Sx COMPONENT PROPERTY LIST ) .
By editing this property list and specifying it with
.Cm --component-plist
when you subsequently build the package, you can control bundle-specific Installer behavior.
.It
.Em Package one or more individual bundles.
If you don't have a destination root, you can use the
.Cm --component
option to specify one or more bundles that should be incorporated into the package.
Note that only
.Sy bundles
can be specified with
.Cm --component .
.El
.\"																				OPTIONS 
.Sh ARGUMENTS AND OPTIONS
.Bl -tag
.It Cm --root Ar root-path
Package the entire contents of the directory tree at
.Ar root-path ,
typically a destination root created by 
.Xr xcodebuild 1 .
.It Cm --component Ar component-path
The bundle at
.Ar component-path
is added to the package. Valid only if you don't use
.Cm --root .
.It Cm --component-plist Ar plist-path
If you specify
.Cm --root ,
you can use 
.Cm --component-plist
to identity the bundles within that destination root, and control how the OS X Installer
handles those bundles. See more at
.Sx COMPONENT PROPERTY LIST .
If you add bundles and need to update your component property list, you can specify the
old version with 
.Cm --component-plist
when running
.Nm
with 
.Cm --analyze ,
and the old settings will be propagated to the output for still-extant bundles.
.It Cm --scripts Ar scripts-path
Archive the entire contents of
.Ar scripts-path
as the package scripts. If this directory contains scripts named 
.Pa preinstall
and/or
.Pa postinstall ,
these will be run as the top-level scripts of the package. If you want to run scripts for
specific bundles, you must specify those in a component property list; see more at
.Sx COMPONENT PROPERTY LIST .
Any other files under
.Ar scripts-path
will be used only if the top-level or component-specific scripts invoke them.
.It Cm --nopayload
Indicates that the package will contain only scripts, with no payload.
.It Cm --identifier Ar pkg-identifier
Specify a unique identifier for this package. The OS X Installer recognizes a package
as being an upgrade to an already-installed package only if the package identifiers match,
so it is advisable to set a meaningful, consistent identifier when you build the package.
.Nm
will infer an identifier when building a package from a single component, but will fail
otherwise if the identifier has not been set.
.It Cm --version Ar pkg-version
Specify a version for the package. Packages with the same identifier are compared using
this version, to determine if the package is an upgrade or downgrade. If you don't specify
a version, a default of zero is assumed, but this may prevent proper upgrade/downgrade checking.
.It Cm --install-location Ar install-path
Specify the default install location for the contents of the package. For example, if
you specify a single application component, you might specify an 
.Ar install-path
of
.Pa /Applications .
.Nm
attempts to infer a sensible install path if this option is not used, but it may not
choose correctly. Note that whether or not the default install location is actually used
by the OS X Installer depends on the distribution file you deploy with the package.
.It Cm --analyze
Instead of creating a package, create a template component property list from the destination root given with
.Cm --root .
See
.Sx COMPONENT PROPERTY LIST .
.It Cm --prior Ar pkg-path
In addition to the options above, you can also set the package identifier, version and install location 
by pointing to a prior version of the same package. 
.Nm
will read the package at
.Ar pkg-path
and use the same package identifier and install location contained therein. The version
number in the prior package will be converted to an integer and incremented, and the result
used for the new package. Note that
.Nm
makes no attempt to verify that the prior package is in any way equivalent to the one being
built, so you must make sure you point it to a logically equivalent package.
.It Cm --filter Ar filter-expression
By default,
.Cm --root
will include the entire contents of the given
.Ar root-path
in the package payload, except for any
.Pa .svn
or
.Pa CVS
directories, and any
.Pa .DS_Store
files. You can override these default filters by specifying one or more
.Cm --filter
options. Each
.Ar filter-expression
is an
.Xr re_format 7
.Dq extended 
expression: any path in the root which matches any of the given expressions will be 
excluded from the package payload. (Note that specifying even one
.Cm --filter
inhibits the default filters, so you must respecify the default filters if you
still want them to be used.)
.It Cm --ownership ( Li recommended | Li preserve | Li preserve-other )
By default, when the payload is archived into the package, the recommended UID and GID
will be applied to all files. (Generally, this will be root:wheel, which ensures that
files installed in the system domain are root-owned, while files installed in the user
home directory will be owned by that user.) If you have special ownership requirements,
you should use
.Xr chmod 1
to adjust the ownership of the source files, and use
.Cm --ownership preserve
so that 
.Nm
archives the exact ownership of the on-disk files. Alternatively, if you have just a few
files to adjust,
.Cm --ownership preserve-other
will apply the recommended UID and GID to those files that are owned by the user running
.Nm ,
but leave other files unchanged. Note that
.Nm
never changes the ownership of the actual on-disk files, only the ownership that is
archived into the package.
.It Cm --sign Ar identity-name
Adds a digital signature to the resulting package. See
.Sx SIGNED PACKAGES
.It Cm --keychain Ar keychain-path
Specify a specific keychain to search for the signing identity. See
.Sx SIGNED PACKAGES
.It Cm --cert Ar certificate-name
Specify an intermediate certificate to be embedded in the package. See
.Sx SIGNED_PACKAGES
.It Cm --timestamp
Include a trusted timestamp with the signature. See
.Sx SIGNED_PACKAGES
.It Cm --timestamp=none
Disable trusted timestamp, regardless of identity. See
.Sx SIGNED_PACKAGES
.It Cm --quiet
Inhibits status messages on stdout. Any error messages are still sent to stderr.
.It Ar package-output-path
The path to which the package will be written.
.It Ar plist-output-path
When
.Cm --analyze
is used, the path to which the template component property list will be written.
.El
.Pp
.\"																				COMPONENT PROPERTY LIST 
.Sh COMPONENT PROPERTY LIST
When you package a destination root, you can use a component property list to
specify how bundles in that root should be handled by the OS X Installer. This property
list should be an array of dictionaries, where each dictionary specifies a single bundle. The
dictionary keys are as follows:
.Bl -column ".Sy BundlePostInstallScriptPath" A012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789
.It Sy Key Ta Sy Description
.It Sy RootRelativeBundlePath Ta "Path to bundle relative to the destination root (string)"
.It Sy BundleIsRelocatable Ta "Install bundle over previous version if moved by user? (bool)"
.It Sy BundleIsVersionChecked Ta "Don't install bundle if newer version on disk? (bool)"
.It Sy BundleHasStrictIdentifier Ta "Require identical bundle identifiers at install path? (bool)" 
.It Sy BundleOverwriteAction Ta "How to treat existing on-disk version of bundle (string)" 
.It Sy BundlePreInstallScriptPath Ta "Relative path to bundle-specific preinstall script"
.It Sy BundlePostInstallScriptPath Ta "Relative path to bundle-specific postinstall script"
.It Sy ChildBundles Ta "Bundles under this bundle (array of dictionaries)"
.El
.Pp
The easiest way to create a component property list is to use the 
.Cm --analyze
option and point 
.Nm
at your current destination root. The output will be a component property list with default
attributes, which you can then edit as needed. You can also specify a previous version of
your component property list when using
.Cm --analyze ,
which will cause the attributes of previously existing bundles to be propagated forward.
.Pp
.Sy BundleOverwriteAction
specifies how an existing version of the bundle on disk should be handled when the version in
the package is installed. If you specify
.Ar upgrade ,
the bundle in the package atomically replaces any version on disk; this has the effect of 
deleting old paths that no longer exist in the new version of the bundle.
If you specify
.Ar update ,
the bundle in the package overwrites the version on disk, and any files not contained in the
package will be left intact; this is appropriate when you are delivering an update-only package.
Another effect of 
.Ar update
is that the package bundle will not be installed at all if there is not already a version on disk;
this allows a package to deliver an update for an app that the user might have deleted.
.Pp
.Sy BundlePreInstallScriptPath
and
.Sy BundlePostInstallScriptPath
are meaningful only if 
.Cm --scripts
was used to specify a scripts directory. The paths given by these keys must be relative to
the scripts directory.
.Pp
.Sy ChildBundles
can be used to represent nesting of bundles, but it does not change the meaning of 
.Sy RootRelativeBundlePath
within lower-level dictionaries (i.e. it is always relative to the destination root).
If you write a component property list manually, you do not need to use
.Sy ChildBundles
at all; you can simply put all bundle dictionaries in the top-level array.
.\"																				SIGNED PACKAGES 
.Sh SIGNED PACKAGES
When creating a package, you can optionally add a digital signature to the package.
You will need to have a certificate and corresponding private key -- together called an
.Dq identity
-- in one of your accessible keychains. To add a signature, specify the name of the identity using the
.Cm --sign
option. The identity's name is the same as the
.Dq Common Name
of the certificate.
.Pp
If you want to search for the identity in a specific keychain, specify the path to the
keychain file using the 
.Cm --keychain
option. Otherwise, the default keychain search path is used.
.Pp
.Nm
will embed the signing certificate in the product archive, as well as any intermediate
certificates that are found in the keychain. If you need to embed additional certificates
to form a chain of trust between the signing certificate and a trusted root certificate
on the system, use the
.Cm --cert
option to give the Common Name of the intermediate certificate. Multiple
.Cm --cert
options may be used to embed multiple intermediate certificates.
.Pp
The signature can optionally include a trusted timestamp. This is enabled by default when signing with
a Developer ID identity, but it can be enabled explicitly using the
.Cm --timestamp 
option. A timestamp server must be contacted to embed a trusted timestamp. If you aren't
connected to the Internet, you can use
.Cm --timestamp=none
to disable timestamps, even for a Developer ID identity.
.Pp
Note that if you are going to create a signed product with the resulting package, using
.Xr productbuild 1 ,
there is no reason to sign the individual package.
.\"																				EXAMPLES 
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Li "pkgbuild --identifier com.sample.pkg.app --root /tmp/Sample.dst Sample.pkg"
.Pp
Build the package Sample.pkg using the entire contents of the destination root /tmp/Sample.dst.
.It Li "pkgbuild --analyze --root /tmp/Sample.dst components.plist"
.Pp
Analyze the destination root /tmp/Sample.dst, and write a template component property list
to components.plist.
.It Li "pkgbuild --identifier com.sample.pkg.app --root /tmp/Sample.dst --component-plist components-edited.plist Sample.pkg"
.Pp
Build the package Sample.pkg using the destination root /tmp/Sample.dst,
using the bundle-specific behaviors indicated in components-edited.plist.
.It Li "pkgbuild --identifier com.sample.pkg.app --root /tmp/Sample.dst --sign sample-identity Sample.pkg"
.Pp
Build the package Sample.pkg using the destination root /tmp/Sample.dst, and sign the
resulting package using the identity sample-identity. You will be prompted to allow
.Nm
to access the keychain item, unless Always Allow was chosen previously.
.El
.\"																				SEE ALSO 
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.Xr productbuild 1 ,
.Xr xcodebuild 1
