.\" see 'man mdoc' for syntax examples
.\" this should go in /usr/share/man/man1/
.Dd June 18, 2019
.Dt profiles 1
.Os macOS
.Sh NAME
.Nm profiles
.Nd Profiles Tool for macOS.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ar verb
.Op Ar options
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is used to install, remove, list, or otherwise handle various profile types on macOS.
.Pp
Note that the command parameters have changed starting in version 5.0 of this tool, but the older options are still valid and can also be used.  Use the man profiles.old(1) page to view the old parameters.  These older style options will not be updated to provide support for some of the newer profiles tool features, so it's suggested you move to use the new parameter structure.
.Pp
To prevent unintended installations, profiles containing certain payloads (specifically com.apple.Safari) will require a manual verification even when running as root.
.Pp
WARNING: In the future, some features in this tool may be removed in favor of using user approved, high level UI to install configuration profiles.  Clients should instead use the Profiles System Preferences pane to install configuration profiles.
.Pp
.Sh VERBS
Each command verb is listed with its description and optional individual arguments.   Most commands use the -type option to determine which kind of profile should be used in the command.  For those commands, if no type is specified, the default will be to use the configuration profile type.
.\"
.\" List-Begin-Verbs
.Bl -hang -width "imageinfo"
.\"
.\"             -- help --
.It Sy help
.br
Shows abbreviated help
.Pp
.\"             -- list --
.It Sy list
.Sy -type Ar profile_type
.Sy -user Ar user_name
.Sy -output Ar output_path
.br
List profiles for a user or when running as root, the device.  When listing startup profiles, only profiles that have not yet been installed will be shown.
.Pp
.\"             -- show --
.It Sy show
.Sy -type Ar profile_type
.Sy -user Ar user_name
.Sy -output Ar output_path
.br
Show expanded information for profiles.   For an enrollment, this will show the current DEP configuration.
.Pp
.\"             -- install --
.It Sy install
.Sy -type Ar profile_type
.Sy -user Ar user_name
.Sy -enrolledUser Ar enrollment_user_name
.Sy -path Ar file_path
.Sy -forced
.br
Install profiles.   Installing a startup profile only sets up the profile for installation at restart time.   The profile type "enrollment" cannot be used in this command.
.Pp
.\"             -- remove --
.It Sy remove
.Sy -type Ar profile_type
.Sy -user Ar user_name
.Sy -identifier Ar identifier
.Sy -uuid Ar uuid
.Sy -path Ar file_path
.Sy -forced
.Sy -all
.br
Remove profiles.  Startup profiles can only be removed before they are fully installed as a profile, at which point you must use the configuration profile type to remove it.   Attempting to remove a configuration profile requring a removal password without the correct password will fail.
.Pp
.\"             -- status --
.It Sy status
.Sy -type Ar profile_type
.br
Display status of the profiles installed on this client.   When displaying the enrollment type status, if the MDM enrollment was user approved, the status output will show "(User Approved)".
.Pp
.\"             -- sync --
.It Sy sync
.Sy -type configuration
.br
For configuration profiles, synchronize current installed set of profiles with the local users and remove any configuration profiles that belong to users that no longer exist on this computer.
.Pp
.\"             -- renew --
.It Sy renew
.Sy -type Ar profile_type
.Sy -identifier Ar identifier
.Sy -output Ar output_path
.br
For configuration profiles, renews any certificates for the specified profile.  For Device Enrollment Program (DEP) enrollments, retry to obtain the device enrollment configuration, and re-enable the user notification if enrollment wasn't completed.
.Pp
.\"             -- validate --
.It Sy validate
.Sy -type Ar profile_type
.Sy -path Ar file_path
.br
For provisioning profiles, validate the provisioning profile located at the file_path.
For enrollments, re-validate the installed DEP server information and update any local information, displaying any major changes.  If this information is different from the current enrolled server, this will not unenroll the client from the current server.
.Pp
.\"             -- version --
.It Sy version
.br
Displays current tool version.
.El
.\"
.Pp
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width indent
.Pp
.It Fl type Ar profile_type
The profile_type can be one of either: "configuration", "provisioning", "startup", "bootstraptoken", or "enrollment" (DEP).  If a command requires a profile type and none is specified, "configuration" will be used.
.It Fl path Ar file_path
A file path or "-" to represent stdout.   When used by the remove command for startup profiles, this should only contain the file name of the profile.
.It Fl user Ar user_name
An OD short user name.   In most cases if no user was specified, then the current user will be used.   If no user option was specified and the process runs as root, the computer/device profiles will be used in the command.
.It Fl uuid Ar profile_uuid
A canonical form UUID to specify a profile's PayloadUUID, such as 5A15247B-899C-474D-B1D7-DBD82BDE5684.   Only used by the remove provisioning profile command.
.It Fl identifier Ar profile_identifier
A profile identifier (PayloadIdentifier) to specify a profile.
.It Fl output Ar output_path
The output path location.  The output_path argument must be specified to use this option, Use 'stdout' to send this informaton to the console.  File output will be written as an XML plist file, or you can use 'stdout-xml' to write XML to the console.  The toplevel key of the dictionary will contain either the user name, or _computerLevel for device or provisioning profile information.
.It Fl enrolledUser Ar enrollment_user_name
The user name specified when installing an enrollment profile.
.It Fl password Ar password
An optional password used when removing a configuration profile which requires the password removal option.
.It Fl forced
For startup profiles, this option will force a retry to occur at every boot until the profile is successfully installed.   For other profiles, this will prevent confirmation requests, and when trying to remove all configuration profles for a user, it will ignore any errors during removal.
.It Fl all
For configuration profiles, when running as root, the use of this option with the list or show commands will display all profiles installed on the system.   When removing profiles, using this option will remove all profiles for that user (or device).
.It Fl verbose
Display additional information.
.El
.Pp
.Sh PROFILE TYPES
.Bl -tag -width indent
.Pp
.It configuration
A configuration profile.
.It provisioning
A provisioning profile.
.It enrollment
A device enrollment program (DEP) or mobile device management (MDM) enrollment profile or feature.
.It startup
A startup-enabled configuration profile.
.It bootstraptoken
Bootstrap Token options.   Requires DEP enrolled MDM client.
.El
.Pp
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Differs from above in tag removed
.It profiles install -path /testfile.mobileconfig
Installs the configuration profile file 'testfile.mobileconfig' into current user.
.It profiles remove -path /profiles/testfile2.mobileconfig
Removes the configuration profile file '/profiles/testfile2.mobileconfig' into the current user.
.It profiles list -type provisioning
Displays a list of installed provisioning profiles.
.It profiles list -all
When running as root, this will list all configuration profiles on the system.
.It profiles show
Displays extended information for installed configuration profiles for the current user.
.It profiles status -type startup
Displays information on whether or not startup profiles are set up.
.It profiles remove -identifier com.example.profile1 -password pass
Removes any installed profiles with the identifier com.example.profile1 in the current user and using a removal password of 'pass'.
.It profiles install -type startup -path /startupprofile.mobileconfig -forced
Sets up the profile as a startup profile to be triggered at the next system startup time.   If the profile can't be installed, it will try again at next startup time.
.It profiles show -type enrollment
Displays the current DEP configuration information.
.It profiles renew -type enrollment
Re-enables the DEP user notification enrollment messages.
.It profiles install -type bootstraptoken
Creates or updates the Bootstrap Token APFS record and escrows the information to the server.
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr profiles.old 1
