'\" t
.\" SMI;
.\" Copyright 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc. Tous droits réservés.
.\"
.TH "jconsole" 1 "06 Feb 2004"
.SH NAME
jconsole \- J2SE Monitoring and Management Console
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B jconsole
[
.I options 
] [ 
.I pid 
| [ 
.I host:port ... 
] ]
.LP
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 15
.I pid
Process ID of a Java VM that was started with  
\-Dcom.sun.management.jmxremote option on the 
same machine. See JMX Monitoring and
Management for details at 
http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.5.0/docs/guide/management/agent.html.
.TP 15
.I host:port 
Host name on which the Java VM is running and the port number through which the
Java VM's JMX Connector is published.
See JMX Monitoring and
Management for details at 
http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.5.0/docs/guide/management/agent.html.
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B jconsole
command launches a graphical console tool that enables you to monitor and manage
Java applications and virtual machines on a local or remote machine. 
.LP
.B NOTE-
This tool is experimental and may not be available in future versions
of the JDK.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 15
.BI \-interval= n
Set the update interval to \f2n\fR seconds (default is 4 seconds)
.TP
.B \-notile
Do not tile windows initially (for two or more connections) 
.TP
.B \-version
Output version information abd exit.
.TP
.B \-help
Output help message and exit.
.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Monitoring and Management for Java Platform at
http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.5.0/docs/guide/management/index.html
