'\" e  
'\"macro stdmacro
.ds Vn Version 1.2
.ds Dt 6 March 1997
.ds Re Release 1.2.0
.ds Dp May 22 14:54
.ds Dm 4 May 22 14:
.ds Xs 15544     4
.TH GLUCYLINDER 3G
.SH NAME
.B "gluCylinder
\- draw a cylinder

.SH C SPECIFICATION
void \f3gluCylinder\fP(
GLUquadric* \fIquad\fP,
.nf
.ta \w'\f3void \fPgluCylinder( 'u
	GLdouble \fIbase\fP,
	GLdouble \fItop\fP,
	GLdouble \fIheight\fP,
	GLint \fIslices\fP,
	GLint \fIstacks\fP )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP \w'\fIheight\fP\ \ 'u 
\f2quad\fP
Specifies the quadrics object (created with \%\f3gluNewQuadric\fP).
.TP
\f2base\fP
Specifies the radius of the cylinder at \f2z\fP = 0.
.TP
\f2top\fP
Specifies the radius of the cylinder at \f2z\fP = \f2height\fP.
.TP
\f2height\fP
Specifies the height of the cylinder.
.TP
\f2slices\fP
Specifies the number of subdivisions around the \f2z\fP axis.
.TP
\f2stacks\fP
Specifies the number of subdivisions along the \f2z\fP axis.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\%\f3gluCylinder\fP draws a cylinder oriented along the \f2z\fP axis. The base of the cylinder
is placed at \f2z\fP = 0, and the top at z = height. Like a sphere,
a cylinder is subdivided around the \f2z\fP axis into slices, and along the 
\f2z\fP axis into stacks.
.P
Note that if \f2top\fP is set to 0.0, this routine generates a cone.
.P
If the orientation is set to \%\f3GLU_OUTSIDE\fP 
(with \%\f3gluQuadricOrientation\fP), then any generated normals
point away from the \f2z\fP axis. Otherwise, they point toward the 
\f2z\fP axis.
.P
If texturing is turned on (with \%\f3gluQuadricTexture\fP), then texture 
coordinates are generated so that \f2t\fP ranges linearly from 0.0 
at \f2z\fP = 0 to 1.0 at \f2z\fP = \f2height\fP, and \f2s\fP 
ranges from 0.0 at the +\f2y\fP axis, to 0.25 at the +\f2x\fP axis, 
to 0.5 at the -\f2y\fP axis, to 0.75 at the \-\f2x\fP axis, 
and back to 1.0 at the +\f2y\fP axis.
.SH SEE ALSO
\%\f3gluDisk\fP, \%\f3gluNewQuadric\fP, \%\f3gluPartialDisk\fP, \%\f3gluQuadricTexture\fP, 
\%\f3gluSphere\fP
