.\" Copyright (c) 1985, 1991 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     from: @(#)exp.3	6.12 (Berkeley) 7/31/91
.\"	$Id: log.3,v 1.5 2004/12/20 21:35:45 scp Exp $
.\"
.Dd August 16, 2012
.Dt LOG 3
.Os BSD 4
.Sh NAME
.Nm log ,
.Nm log2 ,
.Nm log10 ,
.Nm log1p ,
.Nd logarithm functions
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd #include <math.h>
.Ft double
.Fn log "double x"
.Ft long double
.Fn logl "long double x"
.Ft float
.Fn logf "float x"
.Ft double
.Fn log2 "double x"
.Ft long double
.Fn log2l "long double x"
.Ft float
.Fn log2f "float x"
.Ft double
.Fn log10 "double x"
.Ft long double
.Fn log10l "long double x"
.Ft float
.Fn log10f "float x"
.Ft double
.Fn log1p "double x"
.Ft long double
.Fn log1pl "long double x"
.Ft float
.Fn log1pf "float x"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn log
function computes the value of the natural logarithm of argument 
.Fa x.
.Pp
The
.Fn log2
function computes the value of the logarithm of argument
.Fa x
to base 2.
.Pp
The
.Fn log10
function computes the value of the logarithm of argument
.Fa x
to base 10.
.Pp
If
.Fa x
is nearly zero, then the common expression
.Fn log "1 + x"
will not be able to produce accurate results, as most (or all) of the
information in
.Fa x
will be lost by addition.  Instead, use
.Fn log1p "x"
to perform the same computation without undue loss of accuracy.  If you
find yourself using this function, you are likely to also be interested in the
.Fn expm1
function.
.Sh SPECIAL VALUES
.Fn log "±0" ,
.Fn log2 "±0" ,
and
.Fn log10 "±0"
return -infinity and raise the "divide-by-zero" floating-point exception.
.Pp
.Fn log "1" ,
.Fn log2 "1" ,
and
.Fn log10 "1"
return +0.
.Pp
.Fn log "x" ,
.Fn log2 "x" ,
and
.Fn log10 "x"
return a NaN and raise the "invalid" floating-point exception for x < 0.
.Pp
.Fn log "+infinity" ,
.Fn log2 "+infinity" ,
and 
.Fn log10 "+infinity"
return +infinity.
.Pp
.Fn log1p "±0"
returns ±0.
.Pp
.Fn log1p "-1"
returns -infinity and raises the "divide-by-zero" floating-point exception.
.Pp
.Fn log1p "x"
returns a NaN and raises the "invalid" floating-point exception for x < -1.
.Pp
.Fn log1p "+infinity"
returns +infinity.
.Sh VECTOR OPERATIONS
If you need to apply the 
.Fn log
functions to SIMD vectors or arrays, using the following functions provided
by the Accelerate.framework may give significantly better performance:
.Pp
.Fd #include <Accelerate/Accelerate.h>
.Pp
.Ft vFloat
.Fn vlogf "vFloat x" ;
.br
.Ft vFloat
.Fn vlog1pf "vFloat x" ;
.br
.Ft vFloat
.Fn vlog10f "vFloat x" ;
.br
.Ft void
.Fn vvlogf "float *y" "const float *x" "const int *n" ;
.br
.Ft void
.Fn vvlog "double *y" "const double *x" "const int *n" ;
.br
.Ft void
.Fn vvlog1pf "float *y" "const float *x" "const int *n" ;
.br
.Ft void
.Fn vvlog1p "double *y" "const double *x" "const int *n" ;
.br
.Ft void
.Fn vvlog10f "float *y" "const float *x" "const int *n" ;
.br
.Ft void
.Fn vvlog10 "double *y" "const double *x" "const int *n" ;
.br
.Ft void
.Fn vvlog2f "float *y" "const float *x" "const int *n" ;
.br
.Ft void
.Fn vvlog2 "double *y" "const double *x" "const int *n" ;
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr exp 3 ,
.Xr pow 3 ,
.Xr math 3
.Sh STANDARDS
The
.Fn log ,
.Fn log2 ,
.Fn log10,
and
.Fn log1p
functions conform to ISO/IEC 9899:2011.
