.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 2001 Carnegie Mellon University.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. The name "Carnegie Mellon University" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For permission or any other legal
.\"    details, please contact  
.\"      Office of Technology Transfer
.\"      Carnegie Mellon University
.\"      5000 Forbes Avenue
.\"      Pittsburgh, PA  15213-3890
.\"      (412) 268-4387, fax: (412) 268-7395
.\"      tech-transfer@andrew.cmu.edu
.\"
.\" 4. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by Computing Services
.\"     at Carnegie Mellon University (http://www.cmu.edu/computing/)."
.\"
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN
.\" AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.TH sasl_listmech 3 "10 July 2001" SASL "SASL man pages"
.SH NAME
sasl_listmech \- Retrieve a list of the supported SASL mechanisms
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sasl/sasl.h>
.sp

.BI "int sasl_listmech(sasl_conn_t *" conn ", "
.BI "		       const char *" user ", "
.BI "		       const char *" prefix ", "
.BI "		       const char *" sep ", "
.BI "		       const char *" suffix ", "
.BI "		       const char **" result ", "
.BI "		       unsigned *" plen ", "
.BI "		       int *" pcount ");"

.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION

.B sasl_listmech()
returns a string listing the SASL names of all the mechanisms available to the specified user. This is typically given to the client through a capability command or initial server response. Client applications need this list so that they know what mechanisms the server supports.

.I conn
the SASL context for this connection
.I user
(optional) restricts the mechanism list to only those available to the user.
.I prefix
appended to beginning of result
.I sep
appended between mechanisms
.I suffix
appended to end of result
.I result
NULL terminated result string (allocated/freed by library)
.I plen
length of result filled in by library. May be NULL
.I pcount
Number of mechanisms available (filled in by library). May be NULL

.nf
Example:

sasl_listmech(conn,NULL,"(",",",")",&mechlist,NULL,NULL);

may give the string 
.BI (ANONYMOUS,KERBEROS_V4,DIGEST-MD5)
as a result
.PP

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Returns SASL_OK on success. SASL error code on failure.

.SH "CONFORMING TO"
RFC 4422
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sasl(3), sasl_errors(3), sasl_server_new(3), sasl_client_new(3)
