'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 1997 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
'\"
'\" See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
'\" of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
'\" 
'\" RCS: @(#) $Id: GetIndex.3,v 1.22 2007/12/13 15:22:31 dgp Exp $
'\" 
.\" The -*- nroff -*- definitions below are for supplemental macros used
.\" in Tcl/Tk manual entries.
.\"
.\" .AP type name in/out ?indent?
.\"	Start paragraph describing an argument to a library procedure.
.\"	type is type of argument (int, etc.), in/out is either "in", "out",
.\"	or "in/out" to describe whether procedure reads or modifies arg,
.\"	and indent is equivalent to second arg of .IP (shouldn't ever be
.\"	needed;  use .AS below instead)
.\"
.\" .AS ?type? ?name?
.\"	Give maximum sizes of arguments for setting tab stops.  Type and
.\"	name are examples of largest possible arguments that will be passed
.\"	to .AP later.  If args are omitted, default tab stops are used.
.\"
.\" .BS
.\"	Start box enclosure.  From here until next .BE, everything will be
.\"	enclosed in one large box.
.\"
.\" .BE
.\"	End of box enclosure.
.\"
.\" .CS
.\"	Begin code excerpt.
.\"
.\" .CE
.\"	End code excerpt.
.\"
.\" .VS ?version? ?br?
.\"	Begin vertical sidebar, for use in marking newly-changed parts
.\"	of man pages.  The first argument is ignored and used for recording
.\"	the version when the .VS was added, so that the sidebars can be
.\"	found and removed when they reach a certain age.  If another argument
.\"	is present, then a line break is forced before starting the sidebar.
.\"
.\" .VE
.\"	End of vertical sidebar.
.\"
.\" .DS
.\"	Begin an indented unfilled display.
.\"
.\" .DE
.\"	End of indented unfilled display.
.\"
.\" .SO ?manpage?
.\"	Start of list of standard options for a Tk widget. The manpage
.\"	argument defines where to look up the standard options; if
.\"	omitted, defaults to "options". The options follow on successive
.\"	lines, in three columns separated by tabs.
.\"
.\" .SE
.\"	End of list of standard options for a Tk widget.
.\"
.\" .OP cmdName dbName dbClass
.\"	Start of description of a specific option.  cmdName gives the
.\"	option's name as specified in the class command, dbName gives
.\"	the option's name in the option database, and dbClass gives
.\"	the option's class in the option database.
.\"
.\" .UL arg1 arg2
.\"	Print arg1 underlined, then print arg2 normally.
.\"
.\" .QW arg1 ?arg2?
.\"	Print arg1 in quotes, then arg2 normally (for trailing punctuation).
.\"
.\" .PQ arg1 ?arg2?
.\"	Print an open parenthesis, arg1 in quotes, then arg2 normally
.\"	(for trailing punctuation) and then a closing parenthesis.
.\"
.\" RCS: @(#) $Id: man.macros,v 1.9 2008/01/29 15:32:33 dkf Exp $
.\"
.\"	# Set up traps and other miscellaneous stuff for Tcl/Tk man pages.
.if t .wh -1.3i ^B
.nr ^l \n(.l
.ad b
.\"	# Start an argument description
.de AP
.ie !"\\$4"" .TP \\$4
.el \{\
.   ie !"\\$2"" .TP \\n()Cu
.   el          .TP 15
.\}
.ta \\n()Au \\n()Bu
.ie !"\\$3"" \{\
\&\\$1 \\fI\\$2\\fP (\\$3)
.\".b
.\}
.el \{\
.br
.ie !"\\$2"" \{\
\&\\$1	\\fI\\$2\\fP
.\}
.el \{\
\&\\fI\\$1\\fP
.\}
.\}
..
.\"	# define tabbing values for .AP
.de AS
.nr )A 10n
.if !"\\$1"" .nr )A \\w'\\$1'u+3n
.nr )B \\n()Au+15n
.\"
.if !"\\$2"" .nr )B \\w'\\$2'u+\\n()Au+3n
.nr )C \\n()Bu+\\w'(in/out)'u+2n
..
.AS Tcl_Interp Tcl_CreateInterp in/out
.\"	# BS - start boxed text
.\"	# ^y = starting y location
.\"	# ^b = 1
.de BS
.br
.mk ^y
.nr ^b 1u
.if n .nf
.if n .ti 0
.if n \l'\\n(.lu\(ul'
.if n .fi
..
.\"	# BE - end boxed text (draw box now)
.de BE
.nf
.ti 0
.mk ^t
.ie n \l'\\n(^lu\(ul'
.el \{\
.\"	Draw four-sided box normally, but don't draw top of
.\"	box if the box started on an earlier page.
.ie !\\n(^b-1 \{\
\h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\l'\\n(^lu+3n\(ul'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\l'|0u-1.5n\(ul'
.\}
.el \}\
\h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\h'\\n(^lu+3n'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\l'|0u-1.5n\(ul'
.\}
.\}
.fi
.br
.nr ^b 0
..
.\"	# VS - start vertical sidebar
.\"	# ^Y = starting y location
.\"	# ^v = 1 (for troff;  for nroff this doesn't matter)
.de VS
.if !"\\$2"" .br
.mk ^Y
.ie n 'mc \s12\(br\s0
.el .nr ^v 1u
..
.\"	# VE - end of vertical sidebar
.de VE
.ie n 'mc
.el \{\
.ev 2
.nf
.ti 0
.mk ^t
\h'|\\n(^lu+3n'\L'|\\n(^Yu-1v\(bv'\v'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^Yu'\h'-|\\n(^lu+3n'
.sp -1
.fi
.ev
.\}
.nr ^v 0
..
.\"	# Special macro to handle page bottom:  finish off current
.\"	# box/sidebar if in box/sidebar mode, then invoked standard
.\"	# page bottom macro.
.de ^B
.ev 2
'ti 0
'nf
.mk ^t
.if \\n(^b \{\
.\"	Draw three-sided box if this is the box's first page,
.\"	draw two sides but no top otherwise.
.ie !\\n(^b-1 \h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\l'\\n(^lu+3n\(ul'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\h'|0u'\c
.el \h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\h'\\n(^lu+3n'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\h'|0u'\c
.\}
.if \\n(^v \{\
.nr ^x \\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^Yu
\kx\h'-\\nxu'\h'|\\n(^lu+3n'\ky\L'-\\n(^xu'\v'\\n(^xu'\h'|0u'\c
.\}
.bp
'fi
.ev
.if \\n(^b \{\
.mk ^y
.nr ^b 2
.\}
.if \\n(^v \{\
.mk ^Y
.\}
..
.\"	# DS - begin display
.de DS
.RS
.nf
.sp
..
.\"	# DE - end display
.de DE
.fi
.RE
.sp
..
.\"	# SO - start of list of standard options
.de SO
'ie '\\$1'' .ds So \\fBoptions\\fR
'el .ds So \\fB\\$1\\fR
.SH "STANDARD OPTIONS"
.LP
.nf
.ta 5.5c 11c
.ft B
..
.\"	# SE - end of list of standard options
.de SE
.fi
.ft R
.LP
See the \\*(So manual entry for details on the standard options.
..
.\"	# OP - start of full description for a single option
.de OP
.LP
.nf
.ta 4c
Command-Line Name:	\\fB\\$1\\fR
Database Name:	\\fB\\$2\\fR
Database Class:	\\fB\\$3\\fR
.fi
.IP
..
.\"	# CS - begin code excerpt
.de CS
.RS
.nf
.ta .25i .5i .75i 1i
..
.\"	# CE - end code excerpt
.de CE
.fi
.RE
..
.\"	# UL - underline word
.de UL
\\$1\l'|0\(ul'\\$2
..
.\"	# QW - apply quotation marks to word
.de QW
.ie '\\*(lq'"' ``\\$1''\\$2
.\"" fix emacs highlighting
.el \\*(lq\\$1\\*(rq\\$2
..
.\"	# PQ - apply parens and quotation marks to word
.de PQ
.ie '\\*(lq'"' (``\\$1''\\$2)\\$3
.\"" fix emacs highlighting
.el (\\*(lq\\$1\\*(rq\\$2)\\$3
..
.\"	# QR - quoted range
.de QR
.ie '\\*(lq'"' ``\\$1''\\-``\\$2''\\$3
.\"" fix emacs highlighting
.el \\*(lq\\$1\\*(rq\\-\\*(lq\\$2\\*(rq\\$3
..
.\"	# MT - "empty" string
.de MT
.QW ""
..
.TH Tcl_GetIndexFromObj 3 8.1 Tcl "Tcl Library Procedures"
.BS
.SH NAME
Tcl_GetIndexFromObj, Tcl_GetIndexFromObjStruct \- lookup string in table of keywords
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <tcl.h>\fR
.sp
int
\fBTcl_GetIndexFromObj\fR(\fIinterp, objPtr, tablePtr, msg, flags,
indexPtr\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTcl_GetIndexFromObjStruct\fR(\fIinterp, objPtr, structTablePtr, offset,
                          msg, flags, indexPtr\fR)
.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS "const char" *structTablePtr in/out
.AP Tcl_Interp *interp in
Interpreter to use for error reporting; if NULL, then no message is
provided on errors.
.AP Tcl_Obj *objPtr in/out
The string value of this object is used to search through \fItablePtr\fR.
The internal representation is modified to hold the index of the matching
table entry.
.AP "const char" **tablePtr in
An array of null-terminated strings.  The end of the array is marked
by a NULL string pointer.
.AP "const void" *structTablePtr in
An array of arbitrary type, typically some \fBstruct\fR type.
The first member of the structure must be a null-terminated string.
The size of the structure is given by \fIoffset\fR.
.AP int offset in
The offset to add to structTablePtr to get to the next entry.
The end of the array is marked by a NULL string pointer.
.AP "const char" *msg in
Null-terminated string describing what is being looked up, such as
\fBoption\fR.  This string is included in error messages.
.AP int flags in
OR-ed combination of bits providing additional information for
operation.  The only bit that is currently defined is \fBTCL_EXACT\fR.
.AP int *indexPtr out
The index of the string in \fItablePtr\fR that matches the value of
\fIobjPtr\fR is returned here.
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This procedure provides an efficient way for looking up keywords,
switch names, option names, and similar things where the value of
an object must be one of a predefined set of values.
\fIObjPtr\fR is compared against each of
the strings in \fItablePtr\fR to find a match.  A match occurs if
\fIobjPtr\fR's string value is identical to one of the strings in
\fItablePtr\fR, or if it is a non-empty unique abbreviation
for exactly one of the strings in \fItablePtr\fR and the
\fBTCL_EXACT\fR flag was not specified; in either case
the index of the matching entry is stored at \fI*indexPtr\fR
and \fBTCL_OK\fR is returned.
.PP
If there is no matching entry,
\fBTCL_ERROR\fR is returned and an error message is left in \fIinterp\fR's
result if \fIinterp\fR is not NULL.  \fIMsg\fR is included in the
error message to indicate what was being looked up.  For example,
if \fImsg\fR is \fBoption\fR the error message will have a form like
.QW "\fBbad option \N'34'firt\N'34': must be first, second, or third\fR" .
.PP
If \fBTcl_GetIndexFromObj\fR completes successfully it modifies the
internal representation of \fIobjPtr\fR to hold the address of
the table and the index of the matching entry.  If \fBTcl_GetIndexFromObj\fR
is invoked again with the same \fIobjPtr\fR and \fItablePtr\fR
arguments (e.g. during a reinvocation of a Tcl command), it returns
the matching index immediately without having to redo the lookup
operation.  Note: \fBTcl_GetIndexFromObj\fR assumes that the entries
in \fItablePtr\fR are static: they must not change between
invocations.  If the value of \fIobjPtr\fR is the empty string,
\fBTcl_GetIndexFromObj\fR will treat it as a non-matching value
and return \fBTCL_ERROR\fR.
.PP
\fBTcl_GetIndexFromObjStruct\fR works just like
\fBTcl_GetIndexFromObj\fR, except that instead of treating
\fItablePtr\fR as an array of string pointers, it treats it as a
pointer to the first string in a series of strings that have
\fIoffset\fR bytes between them (i.e. that there is a pointer to the
first array of characters at \fItablePtr\fR, a pointer to the second
array of characters at \fItablePtr\fR+\fIoffset\fR bytes, etc.)
This is particularly useful when processing things like
\fBTk_ConfigurationSpec\fR, whose string keys are in the same place in
each of several array elements.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
Tcl_WrongNumArgs

.SH KEYWORDS
index, object, table lookup
