'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 1989-1993 The Regents of the University of California.
'\" Copyright (c) 1994-1997 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
'\" Copyright (c) 2000 Scriptics Corporation.
'\"
'\" See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
'\" of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
'\" 
'\" RCS: @(#) $Id: Eval.3,v 1.27 2007/12/13 15:22:31 dgp Exp $
'\" 
.\" The -*- nroff -*- definitions below are for supplemental macros used
.\" in Tcl/Tk manual entries.
.\"
.\" .AP type name in/out ?indent?
.\"	Start paragraph describing an argument to a library procedure.
.\"	type is type of argument (int, etc.), in/out is either "in", "out",
.\"	or "in/out" to describe whether procedure reads or modifies arg,
.\"	and indent is equivalent to second arg of .IP (shouldn't ever be
.\"	needed;  use .AS below instead)
.\"
.\" .AS ?type? ?name?
.\"	Give maximum sizes of arguments for setting tab stops.  Type and
.\"	name are examples of largest possible arguments that will be passed
.\"	to .AP later.  If args are omitted, default tab stops are used.
.\"
.\" .BS
.\"	Start box enclosure.  From here until next .BE, everything will be
.\"	enclosed in one large box.
.\"
.\" .BE
.\"	End of box enclosure.
.\"
.\" .CS
.\"	Begin code excerpt.
.\"
.\" .CE
.\"	End code excerpt.
.\"
.\" .VS ?version? ?br?
.\"	Begin vertical sidebar, for use in marking newly-changed parts
.\"	of man pages.  The first argument is ignored and used for recording
.\"	the version when the .VS was added, so that the sidebars can be
.\"	found and removed when they reach a certain age.  If another argument
.\"	is present, then a line break is forced before starting the sidebar.
.\"
.\" .VE
.\"	End of vertical sidebar.
.\"
.\" .DS
.\"	Begin an indented unfilled display.
.\"
.\" .DE
.\"	End of indented unfilled display.
.\"
.\" .SO ?manpage?
.\"	Start of list of standard options for a Tk widget. The manpage
.\"	argument defines where to look up the standard options; if
.\"	omitted, defaults to "options". The options follow on successive
.\"	lines, in three columns separated by tabs.
.\"
.\" .SE
.\"	End of list of standard options for a Tk widget.
.\"
.\" .OP cmdName dbName dbClass
.\"	Start of description of a specific option.  cmdName gives the
.\"	option's name as specified in the class command, dbName gives
.\"	the option's name in the option database, and dbClass gives
.\"	the option's class in the option database.
.\"
.\" .UL arg1 arg2
.\"	Print arg1 underlined, then print arg2 normally.
.\"
.\" .QW arg1 ?arg2?
.\"	Print arg1 in quotes, then arg2 normally (for trailing punctuation).
.\"
.\" .PQ arg1 ?arg2?
.\"	Print an open parenthesis, arg1 in quotes, then arg2 normally
.\"	(for trailing punctuation) and then a closing parenthesis.
.\"
.\" RCS: @(#) $Id: man.macros,v 1.9 2008/01/29 15:32:33 dkf Exp $
.\"
.\"	# Set up traps and other miscellaneous stuff for Tcl/Tk man pages.
.if t .wh -1.3i ^B
.nr ^l \n(.l
.ad b
.\"	# Start an argument description
.de AP
.ie !"\\$4"" .TP \\$4
.el \{\
.   ie !"\\$2"" .TP \\n()Cu
.   el          .TP 15
.\}
.ta \\n()Au \\n()Bu
.ie !"\\$3"" \{\
\&\\$1 \\fI\\$2\\fP (\\$3)
.\".b
.\}
.el \{\
.br
.ie !"\\$2"" \{\
\&\\$1	\\fI\\$2\\fP
.\}
.el \{\
\&\\fI\\$1\\fP
.\}
.\}
..
.\"	# define tabbing values for .AP
.de AS
.nr )A 10n
.if !"\\$1"" .nr )A \\w'\\$1'u+3n
.nr )B \\n()Au+15n
.\"
.if !"\\$2"" .nr )B \\w'\\$2'u+\\n()Au+3n
.nr )C \\n()Bu+\\w'(in/out)'u+2n
..
.AS Tcl_Interp Tcl_CreateInterp in/out
.\"	# BS - start boxed text
.\"	# ^y = starting y location
.\"	# ^b = 1
.de BS
.br
.mk ^y
.nr ^b 1u
.if n .nf
.if n .ti 0
.if n \l'\\n(.lu\(ul'
.if n .fi
..
.\"	# BE - end boxed text (draw box now)
.de BE
.nf
.ti 0
.mk ^t
.ie n \l'\\n(^lu\(ul'
.el \{\
.\"	Draw four-sided box normally, but don't draw top of
.\"	box if the box started on an earlier page.
.ie !\\n(^b-1 \{\
\h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\l'\\n(^lu+3n\(ul'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\l'|0u-1.5n\(ul'
.\}
.el \}\
\h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\h'\\n(^lu+3n'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\l'|0u-1.5n\(ul'
.\}
.\}
.fi
.br
.nr ^b 0
..
.\"	# VS - start vertical sidebar
.\"	# ^Y = starting y location
.\"	# ^v = 1 (for troff;  for nroff this doesn't matter)
.de VS
.if !"\\$2"" .br
.mk ^Y
.ie n 'mc \s12\(br\s0
.el .nr ^v 1u
..
.\"	# VE - end of vertical sidebar
.de VE
.ie n 'mc
.el \{\
.ev 2
.nf
.ti 0
.mk ^t
\h'|\\n(^lu+3n'\L'|\\n(^Yu-1v\(bv'\v'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^Yu'\h'-|\\n(^lu+3n'
.sp -1
.fi
.ev
.\}
.nr ^v 0
..
.\"	# Special macro to handle page bottom:  finish off current
.\"	# box/sidebar if in box/sidebar mode, then invoked standard
.\"	# page bottom macro.
.de ^B
.ev 2
'ti 0
'nf
.mk ^t
.if \\n(^b \{\
.\"	Draw three-sided box if this is the box's first page,
.\"	draw two sides but no top otherwise.
.ie !\\n(^b-1 \h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\l'\\n(^lu+3n\(ul'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\h'|0u'\c
.el \h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\h'\\n(^lu+3n'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\h'|0u'\c
.\}
.if \\n(^v \{\
.nr ^x \\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^Yu
\kx\h'-\\nxu'\h'|\\n(^lu+3n'\ky\L'-\\n(^xu'\v'\\n(^xu'\h'|0u'\c
.\}
.bp
'fi
.ev
.if \\n(^b \{\
.mk ^y
.nr ^b 2
.\}
.if \\n(^v \{\
.mk ^Y
.\}
..
.\"	# DS - begin display
.de DS
.RS
.nf
.sp
..
.\"	# DE - end display
.de DE
.fi
.RE
.sp
..
.\"	# SO - start of list of standard options
.de SO
'ie '\\$1'' .ds So \\fBoptions\\fR
'el .ds So \\fB\\$1\\fR
.SH "STANDARD OPTIONS"
.LP
.nf
.ta 5.5c 11c
.ft B
..
.\"	# SE - end of list of standard options
.de SE
.fi
.ft R
.LP
See the \\*(So manual entry for details on the standard options.
..
.\"	# OP - start of full description for a single option
.de OP
.LP
.nf
.ta 4c
Command-Line Name:	\\fB\\$1\\fR
Database Name:	\\fB\\$2\\fR
Database Class:	\\fB\\$3\\fR
.fi
.IP
..
.\"	# CS - begin code excerpt
.de CS
.RS
.nf
.ta .25i .5i .75i 1i
..
.\"	# CE - end code excerpt
.de CE
.fi
.RE
..
.\"	# UL - underline word
.de UL
\\$1\l'|0\(ul'\\$2
..
.\"	# QW - apply quotation marks to word
.de QW
.ie '\\*(lq'"' ``\\$1''\\$2
.\"" fix emacs highlighting
.el \\*(lq\\$1\\*(rq\\$2
..
.\"	# PQ - apply parens and quotation marks to word
.de PQ
.ie '\\*(lq'"' (``\\$1''\\$2)\\$3
.\"" fix emacs highlighting
.el (\\*(lq\\$1\\*(rq\\$2)\\$3
..
.\"	# QR - quoted range
.de QR
.ie '\\*(lq'"' ``\\$1''\\-``\\$2''\\$3
.\"" fix emacs highlighting
.el \\*(lq\\$1\\*(rq\\-\\*(lq\\$2\\*(rq\\$3
..
.\"	# MT - "empty" string
.de MT
.QW ""
..
.TH Tcl_Eval 3 8.1 Tcl "Tcl Library Procedures"
.BS
.SH NAME
Tcl_EvalObjEx, Tcl_EvalFile, Tcl_EvalObjv, Tcl_Eval, Tcl_EvalEx, Tcl_GlobalEval, Tcl_GlobalEvalObj, Tcl_VarEval, Tcl_VarEvalVA \- execute Tcl scripts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <tcl.h>\fR
.sp
int
\fBTcl_EvalObjEx\fR(\fIinterp, objPtr, flags\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTcl_EvalFile\fR(\fIinterp, fileName\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTcl_EvalObjv\fR(\fIinterp, objc, objv, flags\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTcl_Eval\fR(\fIinterp, script\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTcl_EvalEx\fR(\fIinterp, script, numBytes, flags\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTcl_GlobalEval\fR(\fIinterp, script\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTcl_GlobalEvalObj\fR(\fIinterp, objPtr\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTcl_VarEval\fR(\fIinterp, part, part, ... \fB(char *) NULL\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTcl_VarEvalVA\fR(\fIinterp, argList\fR)
.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS Tcl_Interp **termPtr
.AP Tcl_Interp *interp in
Interpreter in which to execute the script.  The interpreter's result is
modified to hold the result or error message from the script.
.AP Tcl_Obj *objPtr in
A Tcl object containing the script to execute.
.AP int flags in
ORed combination of flag bits that specify additional options.
\fBTCL_EVAL_GLOBAL\fR and \fBTCL_EVAL_DIRECT\fR are currently supported.
.AP "const char" *fileName in
Name of a file containing a Tcl script.
.AP int objc in
The number of objects in the array pointed to by \fIobjPtr\fR;
this is also the number of words in the command.
.AP Tcl_Obj **objv in
Points to an array of pointers to objects; each object holds the
value of a single word in the command to execute.
.AP int numBytes in
The number of bytes in \fIscript\fR, not including any
null terminating character.  If \-1, then all characters up to the
first null byte are used.
.AP "const char" *script in
Points to first byte of script to execute (null-terminated and UTF-8).
.AP char *part in
String forming part of a Tcl script.
.AP va_list argList in
An argument list which must have been initialized using
\fBva_start\fR, and cleared using \fBva_end\fR.
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The procedures described here are invoked to execute Tcl scripts in
various forms.
\fBTcl_EvalObjEx\fR is the core procedure and is used by many of the others.
It executes the commands in the script stored in \fIobjPtr\fR
until either an error occurs or the end of the script is reached.
If this is the first time \fIobjPtr\fR has been executed,
its commands are compiled into bytecode instructions
which are then executed.  The
bytecodes are saved in \fIobjPtr\fR so that the compilation step
can be skipped if the object is evaluated again in the future.
.PP
The return value from \fBTcl_EvalObjEx\fR (and all the other procedures
described here) is a Tcl completion code with
one of the values \fBTCL_OK\fR, \fBTCL_ERROR\fR, \fBTCL_RETURN\fR,
\fBTCL_BREAK\fR, or \fBTCL_CONTINUE\fR, or possibly some other
integer value originating in an extension.
In addition, a result value or error message is left in \fIinterp\fR's
result; it can be retrieved using \fBTcl_GetObjResult\fR.
.PP
\fBTcl_EvalFile\fR reads the file given by \fIfileName\fR and evaluates
its contents as a Tcl script.  It returns the same information as
\fBTcl_EvalObjEx\fR.
If the file could not be read then a Tcl error is returned to describe
why the file could not be read.
The eofchar for files is
.QW \e32
(^Z) for all platforms. If you require a
.QW ^Z
in code for string comparison, you can use
.QW \e032
or
.QW \eu001a ,
which will be safely substituted by the Tcl interpreter into
.QW ^Z .
.PP
\fBTcl_EvalObjv\fR executes a single pre-parsed command instead of a
script.  The \fIobjc\fR and \fIobjv\fR arguments contain the values
of the words for the Tcl command, one word in each object in
\fIobjv\fR.  \fBTcl_EvalObjv\fR evaluates the command and returns
a completion code and result just like \fBTcl_EvalObjEx\fR.
The caller of \fBTcl_EvalObjv\fR has to manage the reference count of the
elements of \fIobjv\fR, insuring that the objects are valid until
\fBTcl_EvalObjv\fR returns.  
.PP
\fBTcl_Eval\fR is similar to \fBTcl_EvalObjEx\fR except that the script to
be executed is supplied as a string instead of an object and no compilation
occurs.  The string should be a proper UTF-8 string as converted by
\fBTcl_ExternalToUtfDString\fR or \fBTcl_ExternalToUtf\fR when it is known
to possibly contain upper ASCII characters whose possible combinations
might be a UTF-8 special code.  The string is parsed and executed directly
(using \fBTcl_EvalObjv\fR) instead of compiling it and executing the
bytecodes.  In situations where it is known that the script will never be
executed again, \fBTcl_Eval\fR may be faster than \fBTcl_EvalObjEx\fR.
 \fBTcl_Eval\fR returns a completion code and result just like 
\fBTcl_EvalObjEx\fR.  Note: for backward compatibility with versions before
Tcl 8.0, \fBTcl_Eval\fR copies the object result in \fIinterp\fR to
\fIinterp->result\fR (use is deprecated) where it can be accessed directly.
 This makes \fBTcl_Eval\fR somewhat slower than \fBTcl_EvalEx\fR, which
does not do the copy.
.PP
\fBTcl_EvalEx\fR is an extended version of \fBTcl_Eval\fR that takes
additional arguments \fInumBytes\fR and \fIflags\fR.  For the
efficiency reason given above, \fBTcl_EvalEx\fR is generally preferred
over \fBTcl_Eval\fR.
.PP
\fBTcl_GlobalEval\fR and \fBTcl_GlobalEvalObj\fR are older procedures
that are now deprecated.  They are similar to \fBTcl_EvalEx\fR and
\fBTcl_EvalObjEx\fR except that the script is evaluated in the global
namespace and its variable context consists of global variables only
(it ignores any Tcl procedures that are active).  These functions are
equivalent to using the \fBTCL_EVAL_GLOBAL\fR flag (see below).
.PP
\fBTcl_VarEval\fR takes any number of string arguments
of any length, concatenates them into a single string,
then calls \fBTcl_Eval\fR to execute that string as a Tcl command.
It returns the result of the command and also modifies
\fIinterp->result\fR in the same way as \fBTcl_Eval\fR.
The last argument to \fBTcl_VarEval\fR must be NULL to indicate the end
of arguments.  \fBTcl_VarEval\fR is now deprecated.
.PP
\fBTcl_VarEvalVA\fR is the same as \fBTcl_VarEval\fR except that
instead of taking a variable number of arguments it takes an argument
list. Like \fBTcl_VarEval\fR, \fBTcl_VarEvalVA\fR is deprecated.

.SH "FLAG BITS"
Any ORed combination of the following values may be used for the
\fIflags\fR argument to procedures such as \fBTcl_EvalObjEx\fR:
.TP 23
\fBTCL_EVAL_DIRECT\fR
This flag is only used by \fBTcl_EvalObjEx\fR; it is ignored by
other procedures.  If this flag bit is set, the script is not
compiled to bytecodes; instead it is executed directly
as is done by \fBTcl_EvalEx\fR.  The
\fBTCL_EVAL_DIRECT\fR flag is useful in situations where the
contents of an object are going to change immediately, so the
bytecodes will not be reused in a future execution.  In this case,
it is faster to execute the script directly.
.TP 23
\fBTCL_EVAL_GLOBAL\fR
If this flag is set, the script is processed at global level.  This
means that it is evaluated in the global namespace and its variable
context consists of global variables only (it ignores any Tcl
procedures at are active).

.SH "MISCELLANEOUS DETAILS"
.PP
During the processing of a Tcl command it is legal to make nested
calls to evaluate other commands (this is how procedures and
some control structures are implemented).
If a code other than \fBTCL_OK\fR is returned
from a nested \fBTcl_EvalObjEx\fR invocation,
then the caller should normally return immediately,
passing that same return code back to its caller,
and so on until the top-level application is reached.
A few commands, like \fBfor\fR, will check for certain
return codes, like \fBTCL_BREAK\fR and \fBTCL_CONTINUE\fR, and process them
specially without returning.
.PP
\fBTcl_EvalObjEx\fR keeps track of how many nested \fBTcl_EvalObjEx\fR
invocations are in progress for \fIinterp\fR.
If a code of \fBTCL_RETURN\fR, \fBTCL_BREAK\fR, or \fBTCL_CONTINUE\fR is
about to be returned from the topmost \fBTcl_EvalObjEx\fR
invocation for \fIinterp\fR,
it converts the return code to \fBTCL_ERROR\fR
and sets \fIinterp\fR's result to an error message indicating that
the \fBreturn\fR, \fBbreak\fR, or \fBcontinue\fR command was
invoked in an inappropriate place.
This means that top-level applications should never see a return code
from \fBTcl_EvalObjEx\fR other then \fBTCL_OK\fR or \fBTCL_ERROR\fR.

.SH KEYWORDS
execute, file, global, object, result, script
