'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 1989-1993 The Regents of the University of California.
'\" Copyright (c) 1994-1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
'\"
'\" See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
'\" of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
'\" 
'\" RCS: @(#) $Id: CrtInterp.3,v 1.7 2002/06/26 11:50:52 msofer Exp $
'\" 
.\" The -*- nroff -*- definitions below are for supplemental macros used
.\" in Tcl/Tk manual entries.
.\"
.\" .AP type name in/out ?indent?
.\"	Start paragraph describing an argument to a library procedure.
.\"	type is type of argument (int, etc.), in/out is either "in", "out",
.\"	or "in/out" to describe whether procedure reads or modifies arg,
.\"	and indent is equivalent to second arg of .IP (shouldn't ever be
.\"	needed;  use .AS below instead)
.\"
.\" .AS ?type? ?name?
.\"	Give maximum sizes of arguments for setting tab stops.  Type and
.\"	name are examples of largest possible arguments that will be passed
.\"	to .AP later.  If args are omitted, default tab stops are used.
.\"
.\" .BS
.\"	Start box enclosure.  From here until next .BE, everything will be
.\"	enclosed in one large box.
.\"
.\" .BE
.\"	End of box enclosure.
.\"
.\" .CS
.\"	Begin code excerpt.
.\"
.\" .CE
.\"	End code excerpt.
.\"
.\" .VS ?version? ?br?
.\"	Begin vertical sidebar, for use in marking newly-changed parts
.\"	of man pages.  The first argument is ignored and used for recording
.\"	the version when the .VS was added, so that the sidebars can be
.\"	found and removed when they reach a certain age.  If another argument
.\"	is present, then a line break is forced before starting the sidebar.
.\"
.\" .VE
.\"	End of vertical sidebar.
.\"
.\" .DS
.\"	Begin an indented unfilled display.
.\"
.\" .DE
.\"	End of indented unfilled display.
.\"
.\" .SO ?manpage?
.\"	Start of list of standard options for a Tk widget. The manpage
.\"	argument defines where to look up the standard options; if
.\"	omitted, defaults to "options". The options follow on successive
.\"	lines, in three columns separated by tabs.
.\"
.\" .SE
.\"	End of list of standard options for a Tk widget.
.\"
.\" .OP cmdName dbName dbClass
.\"	Start of description of a specific option.  cmdName gives the
.\"	option's name as specified in the class command, dbName gives
.\"	the option's name in the option database, and dbClass gives
.\"	the option's class in the option database.
.\"
.\" .UL arg1 arg2
.\"	Print arg1 underlined, then print arg2 normally.
.\"
.\" .QW arg1 ?arg2?
.\"	Print arg1 in quotes, then arg2 normally (for trailing punctuation).
.\"
.\" .PQ arg1 ?arg2?
.\"	Print an open parenthesis, arg1 in quotes, then arg2 normally
.\"	(for trailing punctuation) and then a closing parenthesis.
.\"
.\" RCS: @(#) $Id: man.macros,v 1.9 2008/01/29 15:32:33 dkf Exp $
.\"
.\"	# Set up traps and other miscellaneous stuff for Tcl/Tk man pages.
.if t .wh -1.3i ^B
.nr ^l \n(.l
.ad b
.\"	# Start an argument description
.de AP
.ie !"\\$4"" .TP \\$4
.el \{\
.   ie !"\\$2"" .TP \\n()Cu
.   el          .TP 15
.\}
.ta \\n()Au \\n()Bu
.ie !"\\$3"" \{\
\&\\$1 \\fI\\$2\\fP (\\$3)
.\".b
.\}
.el \{\
.br
.ie !"\\$2"" \{\
\&\\$1	\\fI\\$2\\fP
.\}
.el \{\
\&\\fI\\$1\\fP
.\}
.\}
..
.\"	# define tabbing values for .AP
.de AS
.nr )A 10n
.if !"\\$1"" .nr )A \\w'\\$1'u+3n
.nr )B \\n()Au+15n
.\"
.if !"\\$2"" .nr )B \\w'\\$2'u+\\n()Au+3n
.nr )C \\n()Bu+\\w'(in/out)'u+2n
..
.AS Tcl_Interp Tcl_CreateInterp in/out
.\"	# BS - start boxed text
.\"	# ^y = starting y location
.\"	# ^b = 1
.de BS
.br
.mk ^y
.nr ^b 1u
.if n .nf
.if n .ti 0
.if n \l'\\n(.lu\(ul'
.if n .fi
..
.\"	# BE - end boxed text (draw box now)
.de BE
.nf
.ti 0
.mk ^t
.ie n \l'\\n(^lu\(ul'
.el \{\
.\"	Draw four-sided box normally, but don't draw top of
.\"	box if the box started on an earlier page.
.ie !\\n(^b-1 \{\
\h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\l'\\n(^lu+3n\(ul'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\l'|0u-1.5n\(ul'
.\}
.el \}\
\h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\h'\\n(^lu+3n'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\l'|0u-1.5n\(ul'
.\}
.\}
.fi
.br
.nr ^b 0
..
.\"	# VS - start vertical sidebar
.\"	# ^Y = starting y location
.\"	# ^v = 1 (for troff;  for nroff this doesn't matter)
.de VS
.if !"\\$2"" .br
.mk ^Y
.ie n 'mc \s12\(br\s0
.el .nr ^v 1u
..
.\"	# VE - end of vertical sidebar
.de VE
.ie n 'mc
.el \{\
.ev 2
.nf
.ti 0
.mk ^t
\h'|\\n(^lu+3n'\L'|\\n(^Yu-1v\(bv'\v'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^Yu'\h'-|\\n(^lu+3n'
.sp -1
.fi
.ev
.\}
.nr ^v 0
..
.\"	# Special macro to handle page bottom:  finish off current
.\"	# box/sidebar if in box/sidebar mode, then invoked standard
.\"	# page bottom macro.
.de ^B
.ev 2
'ti 0
'nf
.mk ^t
.if \\n(^b \{\
.\"	Draw three-sided box if this is the box's first page,
.\"	draw two sides but no top otherwise.
.ie !\\n(^b-1 \h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\l'\\n(^lu+3n\(ul'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\h'|0u'\c
.el \h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\h'\\n(^lu+3n'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\h'|0u'\c
.\}
.if \\n(^v \{\
.nr ^x \\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^Yu
\kx\h'-\\nxu'\h'|\\n(^lu+3n'\ky\L'-\\n(^xu'\v'\\n(^xu'\h'|0u'\c
.\}
.bp
'fi
.ev
.if \\n(^b \{\
.mk ^y
.nr ^b 2
.\}
.if \\n(^v \{\
.mk ^Y
.\}
..
.\"	# DS - begin display
.de DS
.RS
.nf
.sp
..
.\"	# DE - end display
.de DE
.fi
.RE
.sp
..
.\"	# SO - start of list of standard options
.de SO
'ie '\\$1'' .ds So \\fBoptions\\fR
'el .ds So \\fB\\$1\\fR
.SH "STANDARD OPTIONS"
.LP
.nf
.ta 5.5c 11c
.ft B
..
.\"	# SE - end of list of standard options
.de SE
.fi
.ft R
.LP
See the \\*(So manual entry for details on the standard options.
..
.\"	# OP - start of full description for a single option
.de OP
.LP
.nf
.ta 4c
Command-Line Name:	\\fB\\$1\\fR
Database Name:	\\fB\\$2\\fR
Database Class:	\\fB\\$3\\fR
.fi
.IP
..
.\"	# CS - begin code excerpt
.de CS
.RS
.nf
.ta .25i .5i .75i 1i
..
.\"	# CE - end code excerpt
.de CE
.fi
.RE
..
.\"	# UL - underline word
.de UL
\\$1\l'|0\(ul'\\$2
..
.\"	# QW - apply quotation marks to word
.de QW
.ie '\\*(lq'"' ``\\$1''\\$2
.\"" fix emacs highlighting
.el \\*(lq\\$1\\*(rq\\$2
..
.\"	# PQ - apply parens and quotation marks to word
.de PQ
.ie '\\*(lq'"' (``\\$1''\\$2)\\$3
.\"" fix emacs highlighting
.el (\\*(lq\\$1\\*(rq\\$2)\\$3
..
.\"	# QR - quoted range
.de QR
.ie '\\*(lq'"' ``\\$1''\\-``\\$2''\\$3
.\"" fix emacs highlighting
.el \\*(lq\\$1\\*(rq\\-\\*(lq\\$2\\*(rq\\$3
..
.\"	# MT - "empty" string
.de MT
.QW ""
..
.TH Tcl_CreateInterp 3 7.5 Tcl "Tcl Library Procedures"
.BS
.SH NAME
Tcl_CreateInterp, Tcl_DeleteInterp, Tcl_InterpDeleted \- create and delete Tcl command interpreters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <tcl.h>\fR
.sp
Tcl_Interp *
\fBTcl_CreateInterp\fR()
.sp
\fBTcl_DeleteInterp\fR(\fIinterp\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTcl_InterpDeleted\fR(\fIinterp\fR)
.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS Tcl_Interp *interp
.AP Tcl_Interp *interp in
Token for interpreter to be destroyed.
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBTcl_CreateInterp\fR creates a new interpreter structure and returns
a token for it.  The token is required in calls to most other Tcl
procedures, such as \fBTcl_CreateCommand\fR, \fBTcl_Eval\fR, and
\fBTcl_DeleteInterp\fR.
Clients are only allowed to access a few of the fields of
Tcl_Interp structures;  see the \fBTcl_Interp\fR
and \fBTcl_CreateCommand\fR man pages for details.
The new interpreter is initialized with the built-in Tcl commands
and with the variables documented in tclvars(n).  To bind in
additional commands, call \fBTcl_CreateCommand\fR.
.PP
\fBTcl_DeleteInterp\fR marks an interpreter as deleted; the interpreter
will eventually be deleted when all calls to \fBTcl_Preserve\fR for it have
been matched by calls to \fBTcl_Release\fR. At that time, all of the
resources associated with it, including variables, procedures, and
application-specific command bindings, will be deleted.  After
\fBTcl_DeleteInterp\fR returns any attempt to use \fBTcl_Eval\fR on the
interpreter will fail and return \fBTCL_ERROR\fR. After the call to
\fBTcl_DeleteInterp\fR it is safe to examine the interpreter's result,
query or set the values of variables, define, undefine or retrieve
procedures, and examine the runtime evaluation stack. See below, in the
section \fBINTERPRETERS AND MEMORY MANAGEMENT\fR for details.
.PP
\fBTcl_InterpDeleted\fR returns nonzero if \fBTcl_DeleteInterp\fR was
called with \fIinterp\fR as its argument; this indicates that the
interpreter will eventually be deleted, when the last call to
\fBTcl_Preserve\fR for it is matched by a call to \fBTcl_Release\fR. If
nonzero is returned, further calls to \fBTcl_Eval\fR in this interpreter
will return \fBTCL_ERROR\fR.
.PP
\fBTcl_InterpDeleted\fR is useful in deletion callbacks to distinguish
between when only the memory the callback is responsible for is being
deleted and when the whole interpreter is being deleted. In the former case
the callback may recreate the data being deleted, but this would lead to an
infinite loop if the interpreter were being deleted.

.SH "INTERPRETERS AND MEMORY MANAGEMENT"
.PP
\fBTcl_DeleteInterp\fR can be called at any time on an interpreter that may
be used by nested evaluations and C code in various extensions. Tcl
implements a simple mechanism that allows callers to use interpreters
without worrying about the interpreter being deleted in a nested call, and
without requiring special code to protect the interpreter, in most cases.
This mechanism ensures that nested uses of an interpreter can safely
continue using it even after \fBTcl_DeleteInterp\fR is called.
.PP
The mechanism relies on matching up calls to \fBTcl_Preserve\fR with calls
to \fBTcl_Release\fR. If \fBTcl_DeleteInterp\fR has been called, only when
the last call to \fBTcl_Preserve\fR is matched by a call to
\fBTcl_Release\fR, will the interpreter be freed. See the manual entry for
\fBTcl_Preserve\fR for a description of these functions.
.PP
The rules for when the user of an interpreter must call \fBTcl_Preserve\fR
and \fBTcl_Release\fR are simple:
.TP
Interpreters Passed As Arguments
Functions that are passed an interpreter as an argument can safely use the
interpreter without any special protection. Thus, when you write an
extension consisting of new Tcl commands, no special code is needed to
protect interpreters received as arguments. This covers the majority of all
uses.
.TP
Interpreter Creation And Deletion
When a new interpreter is created and used in a call to \fBTcl_Eval\fR,
\fBTcl_VarEval\fR, \fBTcl_GlobalEval\fR, \fBTcl_SetVar\fR, or
\fBTcl_GetVar\fR, a pair of calls to \fBTcl_Preserve\fR and
\fBTcl_Release\fR should be wrapped around all uses of the interpreter.
Remember that it is unsafe to use the interpreter once \fBTcl_Release\fR
has been called. To ensure that the interpreter is properly deleted when
it is no longer needed, call \fBTcl_InterpDeleted\fR to test if some other
code already called \fBTcl_DeleteInterp\fR; if not, call
\fBTcl_DeleteInterp\fR before calling \fBTcl_Release\fR in your own code.
.TP
Retrieving An Interpreter From A Data Structure
When an interpreter is retrieved from a data structure (e.g. the client
data of a callback) for use in \fBTcl_Eval\fR, \fBTcl_VarEval\fR,
\fBTcl_GlobalEval\fR, \fBTcl_SetVar\fR, or \fBTcl_GetVar\fR, a pair of
calls to \fBTcl_Preserve\fR and \fBTcl_Release\fR should be wrapped around
all uses of the interpreter; it is unsafe to reuse the interpreter once
\fBTcl_Release\fR has been called.  If an interpreter is stored inside a
callback data structure, an appropriate deletion cleanup mechanism should
be set up by the code that creates the data structure so that the
interpreter is removed from the data structure (e.g. by setting the field
to NULL) when the interpreter is deleted. Otherwise, you may be using an
interpreter that has been freed and whose memory may already have been
reused.
.PP
All uses of interpreters in Tcl and Tk have already been protected.
Extension writers should ensure that their code also properly protects any
additional interpreters used, as described above.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
Tcl_Preserve(3), Tcl_Release(3)

.SH KEYWORDS
command, create, delete, interpreter
