.\" Copyright (c) 2014 Apple Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 4. Neither the name of Apple Computer nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY APPLE COMPUTER AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"
.Dd August 5, 2014
.Dt SmartCardServices-legacy 7
.Os "Mac OS X"
.Sh NAME
.Nm SmartCardServices-legacy
.Nd overview of legacy SmartCard support
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a set of components which add native support for SmartCards to OS X based on Tokend modules. Since OS X 10.12, there is  SmartCard support which is described in 
.Xr SmartCardServices 7
.Pp
Supported SmartCards appear as separate keychains.  A Tokend module for each SmartCard
you wish to use must be installed in
.Pa /Library/Security/tokend
.Sh USB SMART CARD READER DRIVERS
OS X has built-in support for USB CCID class-compliant SmartCard readers.
For other readers, install the reader driver in
.Pa /usr/local/libexec/SmartCardServices/drivers .
Each driver is a bundle.  The bundle contains an XML file Info.plist which contains
the device's USB vendor ID and product ID.  For detailed description of the plist format
and how to write a reader driver, see http://pcsclite.alioth.debian.org/api/group__IFDHandler.html
.Sh SMART CARD APDU LOGGING
It is possible to turn on logging for SmartCards by setting the global preference:
.Pp
.Li "sudo defaults write /Library/Preferences/com.apple.security.smartcard Logging -bool yes"
.Pp
After a SmartCard reader is connected (or after reboot) all operations including contents
of sent and received APDU messages are then logged into the system log.  Logging uses the facility
com.apple.security.smartcard.log
so it is possible to set up filtering of these logs into custom targets (see
.Xr asl.conf 5 )
.Pp
To avoid security risks that could occur if logging is turned on indefinitely, the logging setting
is one-shot - it must be turned on by the command above to start logging again with a new reader.
This includes unplugging and replugging the same reader.
.Sh DISABLING NEW SMART CARD SUPPORT
It is possible to turn of the new tokens by setting the global preference:
.Pp
.Li "sudo defaults write /Library/Preferences/com.apple.security.smartcard DisabledTokens -array com.apple.CryptoTokenKit.pivtoken"
.Pp
.Sh DISABLING SHEET AUTHORIZATION IN PREFERENCES
When using tokend-based SmartCards, according to your configuration you may not be able to use SmartCards for authorization in System Preferences sheets. In such case, you 
can disable sheets using following command:
.Pp
.Li defaults write com.apple.Preferences UseSheets -bool FALSE
.Pp 
System Preferences will then use the original dialog-based authorization.
.Sh ENTITLEMENT
Sandboxed PCSC clients require 'com.apple.security.smartcard=YES' entitlement. Non-sandboxed PCSC clients do not require such entitlement (in order to keep backward compatibility with macOS < 10.10).
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr SmartCardServices 7 ,
.Xr sc_auth 8 ,
.Xr defaults 1 ,
.Xr asl.conf 5 ,
.Xr ssh-keychain 8
