.TH EFIX 1 "February 1999" ""  ""
.UC 1
.SH NAME
efix \- convert between fax, text, bit-map and gray-scale formats
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B efix
[
.I options
]
.I file...

.SH OPTIONS

Where \fIoptions\fP are:

.TP 9
.B -i  \fIf\fP
the input image is in format \fIf\fP. Default is to automatically
determine the input type from its contents.

.TP 9
.B 
   fax
fax ("Group3") 1-D coded image

.TP 9
.B 
   text
text.  Line feeds separate lines, form feeds cause page breaks
and tabs are expanded assuming tabs every 8 columns.

.TP 9
.B 
   pbm
raw PBM (portable bit map)

.TP 9
.B 
   tiffg3
TIFF format with Group 3 (fax) compression.

.TP 9
.B 
   tiffraw
TIFF format with no compression.

.TP 9
.B -o  \fIf\fP
write the output in format \fIf\fP.  Default is tiffg3.

.TP 9
.B 
   fax
fax ("Group3") 1-D coded image

.TP 9
.B 
   pbm
raw PBM

.TP 9
.B 
   pgm
raw PGM (Portable Gray Map).  Gray-scale values are produced by
summing pixels in 4x4 pixel blocks.  The output file is 1/4 of
the size given by -p.  The resulting image has 17 discrete values
between 0 and 255.

.TP 9
.B 
   pcl
HP-PCL (e.g. HP LaserJet).

.TP 9
.B 
   ps
encapsulated Postscript (e.g. Apple Laserwriter).  The file is
compressed using differential coding vertically and run-length
coding horizontally.  There is no provision for positioning the
image within the page and so the image will appear at the lower
left corner of the page when printed.

.TP 9
.B 
   tiffg3
TIFF format with Group 3 (fax) compression.

.TP 9
.B 
   tiffraw
TIFF format with no compression.

.TP 9
.B -n \fIpat\fP
use the printf(3) pattern \fIpath\fP to generate the output file
name.  Up to three %d escapes will be replaced by the page number
starting with 1 (e.g. -n order.%03d will create file names
order.001, order.002, etc.)

.TP 9
.B -v \fIlvl\fP
print messages of type in string \fIlvl\fP.  Each
\fIlower-case\fP letter in \fIlvl\fP enables one type of message:

.RS 12
.B
e - 
errors
.br
.B
w - 
warnings
.br
.B
i - 
information messages
.br
.B
a - 
program arguments
.br
.B
f - 
file format details
.RE

.RS 9
The default is "ewi".
.RE

.TP 9
.B -f \fIfnt\fP
use font file \fIfnt\fP for text.  The font file for an WxH font
should be a bit map of an image of H rows and 256*W columns.
Each successive WxH cell contains the bit map for characters with
codes from 0 to 255.  The default is to use a built-in 8x16 font.

.TP 9
.B -s \fIX\fP\fRx\fP\fIY\fP
scale the input by a factor of X horizontally and Y vertically.
Scaling does not change the size of the output (use -p).  If Y is
not specified it is assumed to be the same as X.  Any floating
point value may be used for X and Y. The default is 1,1.

.TP 9
.B -d \fIR\fP\fR,\fP\fID\fP
displace the output right by R and down by D (opposite if
negative). See below for units.  Default is 0,0.

.TP 9
.B -p \fIW\fP\fRx\fP\fIH\fP
truncate or pad the output to generate an image of width W and
height H.  This does not scale the input.  See below for units.
The default is the size of the input image if it can be
determined or A4 (215x297mm) if it can't.

.TP 9
.B -r \fIX\fP\fRx\fP\fIY\fP
assume an output device resolution of X by Y dots per inch.  If Y
is not specified it is assumed to be the same as X.  The default
is the input resolution if it can be determined or the fax
resolution of 204.1x195.6 dpi if it can't.

.TP 9
.B -R \fIX\fP\fRx\fP\fIY\fP
assume an input device resolution of X by Y dots per inch.  If Y
is not specified it is assumed to be the same as X.  The default
is the input resolution if it can be determined or the fax
resolution of 204.1x195.6 dpi if it can't.

.TP 9
.B -l \fIn\fP
place n lines per page during text input. Default is 66.

.TP 9
.B -O \fIf\fP
overlay (logical OR) the image from file f into the output.  Use
"-" for standard input (-O-).  Default is no overlay file.

.TP 9
.B -M
ignore all other options and copy the standard input to the
standard output while applying base64 (MIME) encoding as
specified by RFC 1521.


.SH FILES

If no -n options are given, output is written to the standard
output.

.SH UNITS

The units of the W, H, R, and D values above are in inches by
default.  Any floating point value may be used.  Units of inches,
centimetres, millimetres or points (72 per inch) can be used
instead by appending one of the strings `in', `cm', `mm', or `pt'
to the argument (e.g. -d2,4cm).

.SH CUT AND PASTE

The -d and -p options allow efix to cut out images from received
faxes for use in other faxes or documents.  The -d option specifies
the top left portion of the desired image and the -p option gives
the size of the cut image.  For example, the command
.RS
.nf
.ft CW
	efix -d-5,-8 -p2,1 sample.001 >sig.001
.ft P
.fi
.RE
would cut out part of the input with its top left corner 5 inches
from the left edge and 8 inches from top of the input image.  The
output image would be 2 inches wide and 1 inch high.

The -O option allows efix to superimpose two or more images.  The
overlay image must be in fax format and cannot be scaled,
truncated or shifted. However, multiple efix commands may be used
to transform images before combining them.  For example, the
commands
.RS
.nf
.ft CW
	efix -d4,8 signature >sig.fax
	efix -O sig.fax letterhead >letterhead.fax
	efix -O letterhead.fax letter.002 >letter.002.new
.ft P
.fi
.RE
will shift the image in the file signature down 8 inches and
right 4 inches and combine (overlay) it with the images in the
files letterhead and letter.002.

.SH REFERENCES

Gunter Born, "The File Formats Handbook", International Thompson
Computer Press, 1995.

.SH COPYRIGHT

efix is copyright 1994 -- 1999 by Ed Casas.  It may be used,
copied and modified under the terms of the GNU Public License.

.SH DISCLAIMER

Although \fBefix\fP has been tested it may have errors that will
prevent it from working correctly on your system.  Some of these
errors may cause serious problems including loss of data.

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR efax(1),
.BR ghostscript(1),
.BR pbm(5), 
.BR pgm(5).

.SH  BUGS

Only reads two types of TIFF compression formats.

Does not write multi-page TIFF files (a feature).

