.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2012  Apple Inc. All rights reserved.
.Dd June 28, 2012
.Dt footprint 1      \" Program name and manual section number
.Os OS X
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm footprint
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line.
.\" Use .Nm macro to designate other names for the documented program.
.Nd gathers memory information about a process or set of processes.
.\" ============================================================================
.\" ========================== BEGIN SYNOPSIS SECTION ==========================
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Fl h
.Nm
.Fl proc Ar <process-name> | Fl pid Ar <pid> Op Fl proc Ar <process-name> | Fl pid Ar <pid> Op ...
.br
.Op Fl categories | regions
.Op Fl swapped
.br
.Op Fl graphics
.Op Fl collapseSharing
.Op Fl targetChildren
.Op Fl skipIdleExitClean
.br
.Op Fl o Ar <output-file-location>
.br 
.Op Fl i Ar <input-file-location>
.\" ============================================================================
.\"
.\" ============================================================================
.\" ======================== BEGIN DESCRIPTION SECTION =========================
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
provides a summary number and a categorization that describe memory use that most impacts the system.
.Pp
.Nm
gathers the sum of dirty/anonymous allocations in one or more processes along with their attributable kernel resources (currently KPRVT). Shared allocations only contribute to the footprint once, regardless of the number of times that they are mapped into any number of processes. The "footprint" value represents allocations that will cause the system to page in accommodation.
.Pp
.Nm
needs to be run as root. It can target multiple processes via multiple instances of the -proc and -pid flags.
.Pp
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width "-skipIdleExitClean"
.It Fl categories
Detailed output on a per-VM-region type level (medium detail).
.It Fl regions
Display all memory objects and associated regions that contribute to each category (high detail).
.It Fl swapped
Display swapped bytes information where applicable.
.It Fl graphics
Gather graphics data if available (platform dependent, not tallied into footprint total).
.It Fl collapseSharing
Do not group shared memory output by process.
.It Fl targetChildren
Gather footprint information for the set of processes launched directly or indirectly by the target processes.
.It Fl skipIdleExitClean
Do not gather information on any processes that are ready to be quit on memory pressure. Also applicable after the fact with 
.Fl i
option.
.El