.\"
.\"	filename: layerutil.1
.\"	created : Thu Feb 26 10:50:36 2015
.\"
.\"
.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.Dd Febuary 26, 2015              \" DATE
.Dt layerutil 1      \" Program name and manual section number
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm layerutil
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line. 
.\" Use .Nm macro to designate other names for the documented program.
.Nm create layered image stacks
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Op Fl hoc         \" [-hoc]
.Ar inputfile            \" Underlined argument - use .Ar anywhere to underline
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm 
Creates a layered image stack car file from a layered input file
(usually PSD).
.Nm
.Pp
A list of flags and their descriptions:
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Differs from above in tag removed
.It Fl c \" -c
Convert to layered car format.
.It Fl o \"-o
Output file name, if no output file is given then input file is over
written.
.It Fl h \"-h
prints out usage information.
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Pp
