.lf 1 stdin
.TH LDAPURL 1 "2011/11/24" "OpenLDAP 2.4.28"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 2008-2011 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldapurl \- LDAP URL formatting tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ldapurl
[\c
.BR \-a \ attrs\fR]
[\c
.BI \-b \ searchbase\fR]
[\c
.BR \-e \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]]
[\c
.BR \-E \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]]
[\c
.BI \-f \ filter\fR]
[\c
.BI \-H \ ldapuri\fR]
[\c
.BI \-h \ ldaphost\fR]
[\c
.BI \-p \ ldapport\fR]
[\c
.BR \-s \ { base \||\| one \||\| sub \||\| children }]
[\c
.BI \-S \ scheme\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I ldapurl
is a command that allows to either compose or decompose LDAP URIs.
.LP
When invoked with the \fB\-H\fP option,
.B ldapurl
extracts the components of the \fIldapuri\fP option argument,
unescaping hex-escaped chars as required.
It basically acts as a frontend to the
.BR ldap_url_parse (3)
call.
Otherwise, it builds an LDAP URI based on the components
passed with the appropriate options, performing the inverse operation.
Option \fB\-H\fP is incompatible with options
.BR \-a ,
.BR \-b ,
.BR \-E ,
.BR \-f ,
.BR \-H ,
.BR \-h ,
.BR \-p ,
.BR \-S ,
and
.BR \-s .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.TP
.BI \-a \ attrs
Set a comma-separated list of attribute selectors.
.TP
.BI \-b \ searchbase
Set the \fIsearchbase\fP.
.TP
.BR \-e \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]
.TP
.BR \-E \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]

Specify general extensions with \fB\-e\fP and search extensions with \fB\-E\fP.
\'\fB!\fP\' indicates criticality.

General extensions:
.nf
  [!]assert=<filter>   (an RFC 4515 Filter)
  [!]authzid=<authzid> ("dn:<dn>" or "u:<user>")
  [!]manageDSAit
  [!]noop
  ppolicy
  [!]postread[=<attrs>]        (a comma-separated attribute list)
  [!]preread[=<attrs>] (a comma-separated attribute list)
  abandon, cancel (SIGINT sends abandon/cancel; not really controls)
.fi

Search extensions:
.nf
  [!]domainScope                               (domain scope)
  [!]mv=<filter>                               (matched values filter)
  [!]pr=<size>[/prompt|noprompt]       (paged results/prompt)
  [!]sss=[\-]<attr[:OID]>[/[\-]<attr[:OID]>...]  (server side sorting)
  [!]subentries[=true|false]           (subentries)
  [!]sync=ro[/<cookie>]                        (LDAP Sync refreshOnly)
          rp[/<cookie>][/<slimit>]     (LDAP Sync refreshAndPersist)
.fi
.TP
.TP
.BI \-f \ filter
Set the URL filter.  No particular check on conformity with RFC 4515
LDAP filters is performed, but the value is hex-escaped as required.
.TP
.BI \-H \ ldapuri
Specify URI to be exploded.
.TP
.BI \-h \ ldaphost
Set the host.
.TP
.BI \-p \ ldapport
Set the TCP port.
.TP
.BI \-S \ scheme
Set the URL scheme.  Defaults for other fields, like \fIldapport\fP,
may depend on the value of \fIscheme\fP.
.TP
.BR \-s \ { base \||\| one \||\| sub \||\| children }
Specify the scope of the search to be one of
.BR base ,
.BR one ,
.BR sub ,
or
.B children
to specify a base object, one-level, subtree, or children search.
The default is
.BR sub .
Note:
.B children
scope requires LDAPv3 subordinate feature extension.

.SH OUTPUT FORMAT
If the \fB\-H\fP option is used, the \fIldapuri\fP supplied
is exploded in its components, which are printed to standard output
in an LDIF-like form.
.LP
Otherwise, the URI built using the values passed with the other options
is printed to standard output.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following command:
.LP
.nf
    ldapuri \-h ldap.example.com \-b dc=example,dc=com \-s sub \-f "(cn=Some One)"
.fi
.LP
returns
.LP
.nf
    ldap://ldap.example.com:389/dc=example,dc=com??sub?(cn=Some%20One)
.fi
.LP
The command:
.LP
.nf
    ldapuri \-H ldap://ldap.example.com:389/dc=example,dc=com??sub?(cn=Some%20One)
.fi
.LP
returns
.LP
.nf
    scheme: ldap
    host: ldap.example.com
    port: 389
    dn: dc=example,dc=com
    scope: sub
    filter: (cn=Some One)
.fi
.LP
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Exit status is zero if no errors occur.
Errors result in a non-zero exit status and
a diagnostic message being written to standard error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ldap (3),
.BR ldap_url_parse (3),
.SH AUTHOR
The OpenLDAP Project <http://www.openldap.org/>
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.lf 1 ./../Project
.\" Shared Project Acknowledgement Text
.B "OpenLDAP Software"
is developed and maintained by The OpenLDAP Project <http://www.openldap.org/>.
.B "OpenLDAP Software"
is derived from University of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.  
.lf 172 stdin
