.\" Copyright (c) 2015, Apple Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.Dd Apr 20, 2015
.Dt lskq 1
.Os "Mac OS X"
.Sh NAME
.Nm lskq
.Nd display process kqueue state
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm lskq
.Op Fl vhe
.Op Fl p Ar <pid> | Fl a
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm lskq
command enumerates kqueues and registered kevents of running processes.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width xxx
.It Fl p Ar <pid>
Show kqueues of process
.Ar <pid> .
.It Fl a
Show kqueues for all running processes. Requires root.
.It Fl v
Verbose: show opaque user data and filter-specific extension fields.
.It Fl e
Ignore empty kqueues.
.It Fl h
Show help and exit.
.El
.Sh OUTPUT
.Nm lskq
prints one line of output for each registered kevent, consisting of process,
kqueue, and kevent information. For kqueues with no registered kevents, a single
line is output with an ident of `-'. See
.Xr kevent 2
for field semantics. The output columns are:
.Bl -tag -width xxxxxxxxxxxx
.It command
shortened process name.
.It pid
process identifier.
.It kq
file descriptor corresponding to kqueue, or ``wq'' for the special workq kqueue.
.It kqst
kqueue status bitmask.
.Bl -tag -width xxxxxxx -compact
.It Sy k
kqueue is in a
.Fn kevent*
wait set (KQ_SLEEP).
.It Sy s
kqueue is in a
.Fn select
wait set (KQ_SEL).
.It Sy 3 6 q
Type of kevents on this kqueue: KEV32, KEV64, or KEV_QOS.
.El
.It ident
kevent identifier. The meaning depends on the kevent filter specified. Where
possible,
.Nm lskq
prints both numeric and symbolic names.
.It filter
kevent filter type (EVFILT_*).
.It fdtype
file descriptor type, for filters operating on file descriptors.
.It fflags
kevent filter flags bitmask. The meaning of each field depends on the filter type.
.Bl -tag -width xxxxxxx -compact
.Pp
.It EVFILT_READ:
.It Sy l
NOTE_LOWAT
.Pp
.It EVFILT_MACHPORT:
.It Sy r
MACH_RCV_MSG
.Pp
.It EVFILT_VNODE:
.It Sy d
NOTE_DELETE
.It Sy w
NOTE_WRITE
.It Sy e
NOTE_EXTEND
.It Sy a
NOTE_ATTRIB
.It Sy l
NOTE_LINK
.It Sy r
NOTE_RENAME
.It Sy v
NOTE_REVOKE
.Pp
.It EVFILT_PROC:
.It Sy x
NOTE_EXIT
.It Sy t
NOTE_EXITSTATUS
.It Sy f
NOTE_FORK
.It Sy e
NOTE_EXEC
.It Sy s
NOTE_SIGNAL
.It Sy r
NOTE_REAP
.Pp
.It EVFILT_TIMER:
.It Sy s u n
NOTE_SECONDS, NOTE_USECONDS, NOTE_NSECONDS
.It Sy a
NOTE_ABSOLUTE
.It Sy c
NOTE_CRITICAL
.It Sy b
NOTE_BACKGROUND
.It Sy l
NOTE_LEEWAY
.El
.It flags
kevent generic flags bitmask.
.Bl -tag -width xxxxxxx -compact
.It Sy a
EV_ADD
.It Sy n
EV_ENABLE
.It Sy d
EV_DISABLE
.It Sy x
EV_DELETE
.It Sy r
EV_RECEIPT
.It Sy 1
EV_ONESHOT
.It Sy c
EV_CLEAR
.It Sy o
EV_EOF
.It Sy e
EV_ERROR
.El
.It evst
kevent status bitmask.
.Bl -tag -width xxxxxxx -compact
.It Sy a
Event has triggered (KN_ACTIVE).
.It Sy q
Event has been added to the active list (KN_QUEUED).
.It Sy d
Event is disabled (KN_DISABLED).
.It Sy s
Event is marked as always-enqueued on the active list (KN_STAYQUEUED).
.El
.It data
Filter-specific data.
.El
.Pp
If the
.Fl v
(verbose) option is specified, the opaque user-data field and further
filter-specific extension fields are printed in raw hexadecimal.
.Sh NOTES
The output of
.Nm lskq
is not an atomic snapshot of system state. In cases where
.Nm lskq
is able to detect an inconsistency, a warning will be printed.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr kqueue 2 ,
.Xr kevent 2 ,
.Xr ddt 1 ,
.Xr lsof 8 ,
.Xr lsmp 1
