.Dd November 12, 2008
.Dt OSACOMPILE 1
.Os "Mac OS X"
.Sh NAME
.Nm osacompile
.Nd compile AppleScripts and other OSA language scripts
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm osacompile
.Bk -words
.Op Fl l Ar language
.Ek
.Bk -words
.Op Fl e Ar command
.Ek
.Bk -words
.Op Fl o Ar name
.Ek
.Op Fl d
.Bk -words
.Op Fl r Ar type:id
.Ek
.Bk -words
.Op Fl t Ar type
.Ek
.Bk -words
.Op Fl c Ar creator
.Ek
.Op Fl x
.Op Fl s
.Op Fl u
.Bk -words
.Op Fl a Ar arch
.Ek
.Bk -words
.Op Ar file ...
.Ek
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
compiles the given files, or standard input if none are listed, into a
single output script.  Files may be plain text or other compiled scripts.
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl l Ar language
Override the language for any plain text files.  Normally,
plain text files are compiled as AppleScript.
.It Fl e Ar command
Enter one line of a script.  Script commands given via
.Fl e
are prepended to the normal source, if any.  Multiple
.Fl e
options may be given to build up a multi-line script.  Because
most scripts use characters that are special to many shell programs
(e.g., AppleScript uses single and double quote marks,
.Dq \&( ,
.Dq \&) ,
and
.Dq * ) ,
the command will have to be correctly quoted and escaped to get it
past the shell intact.
.It Fl o Ar name
Place the output in the file 
.Ar name .
If 
.Fl o
is not specified, the resulting script is placed in the file
.Dq a.scpt .
The value of
.Fl o
partly determines the output file format; see below.
.It Fl x
Save the resulting script as execute-only.
.El
.Pp
The following options are only relevant when creating a new bundled applet or droplet:
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl s
Stay-open applet.
.It Fl u
Use startup screen.
.It Fl a Ar arch
Create the applet or droplet for the specified target architecture
.Ar arch .
The allowable values are
.Dq ppc ,
.Dq i386 ,
and
.Dq x86_64 .
The default is to create a universal binary.
.El
.Pp
The following options control the packaging of the output file.
You should only need them for compatibility with classic Mac OS
or for custom file formats.
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl d
Place the resulting script in the data fork of the output file.
This is the default.
.It Fl r Ar type:id
Place the resulting script in the resource fork of the output file, in the
specified resource.
.It Fl t Ar type
Set the output file type to
.Ar type ,
where
.Ar type
is a four-character code.
If this option is not specified, the creator code will not be set.
.It Fl c Ar creator
Set the output file creator to
.Ar creator ,
where
.Ar creator
is a four-character code.
If this option is not specified, the creator code will not be set.
.El
.Pp
If no options are specified,
.Nm
produces a Mac OS X format script file:
data fork only, with no type or creator code.
.Pp
If the
.Fl o
option is specified and the file does not already exist,
.Nm
uses the filename extension to determine what type of file to create.  If the filename
ends with 
.Dq .app , 
it creates a bundled applet or droplet.  If the filename ends with
.Dq .scptd , 
it creates a bundled compiled script.  Otherwise, it creates a flat file with the script
data placed according to the values of the
.Fl d
and
.Fl r
options.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Pp
To produce a script compatible with classic Mac OS:
.Pp
.Dl osacompile -r scpt:128 -t osas -c ToyS example.applescript
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr osascript 1 ,
.Xr osalang 1
