.Dd 04/22/14               \" DATE
.Dt ostraceutil 1      \" Program name and manual section number
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm ostraceutil
.Nd is used to see application level os_trace messages.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Fl list Ar file
.Nm
.Fl setmode Ar disable|default|debug|stream
.Fl process Ar pid | Fl parent Ar pid
.Nm
.Fl stream
.Op Fl activity Ar binary:activity_name
.Op Fl buffered
.Op Fl debug
.Op Fl filter Ar query
.Op Fl payload
.Op Fl process Ar pid | Fl parent Ar pid
.Op Fl source
.Op Fl style Ar json|syslog
.Op Fl timeout Ar seconds
.Op Fl type Ar activity|breadcrumb|message
.Nm
.Fl watch
.Op Fl errors
.Op Fl faults
.Op Fl process Ar pid
.Op Fl quiet
.Op Fl timeout Ar seconds
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
is used to see application level os_trace messages. Must be run with root privileges.
.Pp
Available options:
.Bl -tag -width "-process -pid|process"
.It Fl activity Ar binary:activity_name
Stream will filter a specific activity from a process, does not operate with the
.Fl parent
option.
.It Fl buffered
Stream will run in buffered mode (delivers as buffers are filled), reduces overhead and impact to application.  Normal stream is 1 IPC per message.  This option only applies when directed towards a specific process.
.It Fl errors
Watch for software errors triggered by processes.
.It Fl faults
Watch for software faults triggered by processes.
Allows watching for a specific activity based on name.  The binary must be listed first, e.g., "AppKit:sendAction:".
.It Fl filter Ar query
Stream will filter messages based on the provided (required) query argument. See section \fB"Filtering"\fR below.
.It Fl list Ar file
Will list all available trace related strings for a binary.
.It Fl payload
Will output the payload content, forcing the output to be JSON.  If the output is cancelled then a trailing ']' may be needed to make JSON parsers happy.
.It Fl parent Ar pid
When passed with
.Fl stream
any processes that are sent IPC from the provided PID will also stream messages associated with the same activity.
.It Fl process Ar pid
The process to operate on.  This option can be passed more than once to operate on multiple processes.  Passing -1 in conjunction with
.Fl setmode
or
.Fl stream
will change the global mode of the system.
.It Fl setmode Ar disable|default|debug|stream
Changes the mode of a process. The parameter
.Fl setmode
can be passed more than once to enable multiple modes.  An environment variable can be used to enable a specific mode:
.Pp
OS_ACTIVITY_MODE="stream"
.Pp
NOTE:
.Fl setmode
must be accompanied by a
.Fl process Ar pid
or
.Fl parent Ar pid
argument.
.It Fl timeout Ar seconds
Timeout a stream or watch operation after a specified number of seconds.
.It Fl source
Include symbol names and source line numbers for
.Fl stream
.It Fl stream
Stream breadcrumbs, activities and/or trace messages from a given process. Using this flag without a process will listen for anything that is in stream mode.
.It Fl type Ar activity|breadcrumb|message
Dictates the type of events to stream from a process. By default all types are streamed unless otherwise specified. Pass an appropriate
.Fl type
for each requested type of event.
.It Fl quiet
Reduce the amount of duplicate information in ostraceutil output.
.It Fl watch
Watch for events for a given process or all processes. The default will be to watch both types of events if neither
.Fl fault
nor
.Fl error
is provided.
.El
.Pp
.Sh FILTERING
Filtering via the
.Fl filter Ar query
option allows users to focus on messages based on the provided query criteria. The
.Ar query
argument defines one or more key/pattern clauses with the form \fB'type:"pattern"[,type:"pattern"...]'\fR (additional clauses separated by commas) where \fBpattern\fR is an extended regular expression (see
.Xr regex 3)
and \fBtype\fR is one of the following:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It \fBmessage\fR
Matches \fBpattern\fR with the message text, activity name, or breadcrumb name of a trace entry.
.It \fBprocess\fR
Matches \fBpattern\fR with the name of the process that originated the trace entry.
.El
.Pp
In addition to multiple clauses per
.Fl filter Ar query
argument, more than one
.Fl filter Ar query
argument may be provided. Clauses within an individual
.Fl filter Ar query
argument will be joined using a logical \fBAND\fR, while multiple
.Fl filter Ar query
arguments will be joined using a logical \fBOR\fR. Thus, the following example
.nf

    \fBostraceutil -stream -filter 'process:"my_process",message:"unexpected"'\fR

.fi
would result in ostraceutil only streaming messages from the process named "my_process" \fBAND\fR whose message text contained "unexpected", while the following example
.nf

    \fBostraceutil -stream -filter 'process:"my_process"' -filter 'message:"unexpected"'\fR

.fi
would result in ostraceutil only streaming messages from the process named "my_process" \fBOR\fR those whose message text contained "unexpected".
.Pp
\fB\fUNOTE:\fR To avoid shell expansion of special characters in the
.Xr regex 3
pattern,
.Ar query
arguments must be enclosed in single quotes.
.Sh ADDITIONAL FILTERING EXAMPLES
To filter messages from a single process:
.nf

    \fBostraceutil -stream -filter 'process:"process_name"'\fR

.fi
To filter messages from a single process OR messages containing the keyword ALERT:
.nf

    \fBostraceutil -stream -filter 'process:"process_name"' -filter 'message:"ALERT"'\fR

.fi
To filter messages pertaining to the creation of an activity (see
.Xr os_activity_initiate 3) :
.nf

    \fBostraceutil -stream -filter 'message:"activity_description"'\fR

.fi
Likewise to filter messages pertaining to the creation of a breadcrumb (see
.Xr os_activity_set_breadcrumb 3) :
.nf

    \fBostraceutil -stream -filter 'message:"breadcrumb_name"'\fR

.fi
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr os_trace 3 ,
.Xr os_activity_initiate 3 ,
.Xr regex 3
