.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.Dd 12/17/10               \" DATE 
.Dt qtdefaults 1      \" Program name and manual section number 
.Os MacOS X 
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm qtdefaults
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line. 
.Nm -- access the QuickTime Preferences
.\" Use .Nm macro to designate other names for the documented program.
.\".Nd This line parsed for whatis database.
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Ar read LegacyAudioCodecsEnabled
.Nm
.Ar read LegacyVideoCodecs [<codec>]
.Nm
.Ar read InstalledLegacyVideoCodecs
.Nm
.Ar read TransportSettings
.Nm
.Ar read MimeSettings
.Nm
.Ar read MediaKeys [category]
.Nm
.Ar reset DownloadCache
.Nm
.Ar reset TransportSettings
.Nm 
.Ar reset MimeSettings
.Nm 
.Ar reset LegacyVideoCodecs
.Nm
.Ar write LegacyAudioCodecsEnabled <yes | no>
.Nm
.Ar write LegacyVideoCodecs <videocodec> <enabled | disabled>
.Nm 
.Ar write MediaKeys <category> <key>
.Nm 
.Ar write TransportSettings <protocol> <port>
.Nm
.Ar delete MediaKeys <category> <key>
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
allows users to read, write, reset and delete QuickTime user preferences from a 
command line shell.
The commands are as follows:
.Pp                      \" Inserts a space
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Begins a tagged list 
.It read LegacyAudioCodecsEnabled               \" Each item preceded by .It macro
Prints whether legacy audio codecs are enabled for use in the export settings.
.It read LegacyVideoCodecs <videocodec>               \" Each item preceded by .It macro
Prints whether the specified legacy video codec is enabled for use in the export settings.
It will print "enabled" if the codec is enabled, "disabled" if disabled, or "unrecognized" if the codec is unknown.
.It read LegacyVideoCodecs               \" Each item preceded by .It macro
Prints list of legacy audio codecs currently enabled for use in the export settings.
.It read InstalledLegacyVideoCodecs               \" Each item preceded by .It macro
Prints out a list of all legacy video codecs installed in the current system. 
This list includes both enabled and disabled video codecs. These codec identifiers
are used with 'qtdefaults read LegacyVideoCodecs' and 'qtdefaults write LegacyVideoCodecs'.
.It read TransportSettings
Prints the transport settings being used by QuickTime for streaming media.
.It read MimeSettings
Prints the MIME types currently being handled by the QuickTime plugin. 
.It read MediaKeys <category>
Prints the media keys being used by QuickTime to playback encrypted movies. 
The optional <category> parameter can be used to list only the media keys associated with the specified category. 
.It reset DownloadCache
Empties the cache being used by QuickTime to store downloaded content. 
.It reset TransportSettings
Resets QuickTime to automatically determine the best protocol and port for streaming media. 
.It reset MimeSettings 
Resets QuickTime plug-in to handle the default MIME types.
.It reset LegacyVideoCodecs 
Disables all QuickTime legacy video codecs.
.It write LegacyAudioCodecsEnabled <value>
A <value> of "yes" will enable the legacy audio codecs for use in the export settings and
a <value> of "no" will disable them. 
.It write LegacyVideoCodecs <videocodec> <value>
A <value> of "enabled" will enable the specified legacy video codec for use in the export settings and
a <value> of "disabled" will disable it. 
.It write MediaKeys <category> <key>
Adds the media key specified by <category> and <key> values to the list of media keys 
used to playback encrypted movies. 
.It write TransportSettings [protocol [port]]
Sets QuickTime streaming to use the transport settings as specified by <protocol> and <port>.
Following are the recommended values for <protocol> and <port>:
.Dl - To use HTTP, specify <protocol> = HTTP and <port> = 80
.Dl - To use UDP, specify <protocol> = UDP and either <port> = 554 or <port> = 7070
.It delete MediaKeys <category> <key>
Deletes the media key specified by <category> and <key> if it exists. 
.El
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.\" List links in ascending order by section, alphabetically within a section.
.\" Please do not reference files that do not exist without filing a bug report
.Xr defaults 1  
.\" .Sh BUGS              \" Document known, unremedied bugs 
.\" .Sh HISTORY           \" Document history if command behaves in a unique manner