.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.Dd Thu July 21 2003               \" DATE 
.Dt sharing 1      \" Program name and manual section number 
.Os "Mac OS X Server"             \" OS - 'Mac OS X' if it requires Mac OS X features else 'Darwin'
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm sharing
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line. 
.\" Use .Nm macro to designate other names for the documented program.
.Nd create share points for afp, ftp and smb services.
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Op Fl a Ar <path> [options]                    \" [-a <path>]
.Op Fl e Ar <share point name> [options]        \" [-a <sharePoint name>]
.Op Fl r Ar <share point name> \" [-r <sharePoint name>]
.Op Fl l \" [-l list share poimts]
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Pp                      \" Inserts a space
A list of flags and their descriptions:
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Differs from above in tag removed 
.It Fl a Ar <path>                \"-a flag as a list item
add a new share point for the directory specified by <path>.
.It Fl e Ar <share point name>
edit the share point record specified by <share point name>.
.It Fl r Ar <share point name>
delete the share point record specified by <share point name>.
.It Fl l
list all existing share point records. 
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Pp
The following options modify share point record attributes:
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Differs from above in tag removed 
.It Fl A Ar <afp name> 
use customized name <afp name> when using share point with afp.
.It Fl F Ar <ftp name> 
use customized name <ftp name> when using share point with ftp.
.It Fl S Ar <smb name> 
use customized name <smb name> when using share points with smb.
.It Fl s Ar <flags> 
Use this option to enable and disable sharing via afp, ftp, and smb.
By default a share point is enabled for afp, ftp, and smb protocols.
To enable and disable particular services, combine (binary AND) the following flags as required: \
100 (enable sharing for afp), 010 (enable sharing for smb), and 001 (enable sharing for ftp).
Specify 000 to turn off sharing of a share point altogether.
Use a customized name <smb name> if appropriate when using share points with smb.
.It Fl g Ar <guest flag> 
Use this option to enable and disable guest access for afp, ftp, and smb.
By default guest access is enabled for afp, ftp, and smb.
To enable and disable guest access to particular services, combine (binary AND) the following flags as required: \
100 (enable guest for afp), 010 (enable guest for smb), and 001 (enable guest for ftp).
Specify 000 to turn off guest access for a share point altogether.
.It Fl i Ar <inherit privileges flag> 
Use this option to enable and disable the "inherit privileges" attribute for afp, ftp, and smb.
By default "inherit privileges" is enabled for ftp only.
To enable and disable guest access to particular services, combine (binary AND) the following flags as required: \
100 ("inherit privileges" for afp), 010 ("inherit privileges" for smb), and 001 ("inherit privileges" for ftp).
Specify 000 to turn off "inherit privileges" for a share point altogether.
.It Fl n Ar <customized record name>
Specify a <customized record name> to be used as the share point record name.
By default the record name is the name of the directory pointed to by the share point record. 
This directory is specified bt the <path> when the record is created.
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Pp
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal -offset indent
/usr/sbin/sharing -a /SomePath/ShareThisDirectory

.Ed
This example shows how to create a share point for the directory "/SomePath/ShareThisDirectory":
.Bd -literal -offset indent
/usr/sbin/sharing -e ShareThisDirectory -A SP1 -g 101

.Ed
This example shows how to edit the share point record created above, 
adding a customized name "SP1" for afp servies, and enabling guest access only 
for afp and smb.
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT      \" May not be needed
.\" .Bl -tag -width "ENV_VAR_1" -indent \" ENV_VAR_1 is width of the string ENV_VAR_1
.\" .It Ev ENV_VAR_1
.\" Description of ENV_VAR_1
.\" .It Ev ENV_VAR_2
.\" Description of ENV_VAR_2
.\" .El                      
.Sh FILES                \" File used or created by the topic of the man page
.Bl -tag -width "/Users/joeuser/Library/really_long_file_name" -compact
.It Pa /usr/sbin/sharing
location of tool
.El
