'\" t
.\" @(#)javap.1 1.10 00/06/13 SMI;
.\" Copyright 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc. Tous droits réservés.
.\" 
.TH javap 1 "13 June 2000"
.SH NAME
javap \- Java class file disassembler
.\" 
.\" This comment retained for historical purposes only:
.\"  This document was created by saving an HTML file as text
.\"  from the JavaSoft web site:
.\" 
.\" http://java.sun.com/products/jdk/1.2/docs/tooldocs/tools.html
.\" 
.\"  and adding appropriate troff macros.
.\" 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B javap
[
.I options
] 
.IR "class " .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "Java class file disassembler" "" "Java class file disassembler \(em \fLjavap\fP"
.IX "javap" "" "\fLjavap\fP \(em Java class file disassembler"
The
.B javap
command disassembles a Java class file. 
The options determine the output.
If no options are used,
.B javap
prints out the
.BR package ,
.BR protected ,
and
.B public
fields and methods of the classes passed to it.
The
.B javap
command displays its output to 
.BR stdout . 
For example, compile the following class declaration:
.RS
.nf
\f3
import java.awt.*;
import java.applet.*;

public class DocFooter extends Applet {
		String date;
		String email;

		public void init() {
			resize(500,100);

			date = getParameter("LAST_UPDATED");
			email = getParameter("EMAIL");
		}

		public void paint(Graphics g) {
			g.drawString(date + " by ",100, 15);
			g.drawString(email,290,15);
		}
}
\f1
.fi
.RE
.LP 
The output from 
.B javap DocFooter
yields:
.RS
\f3
.nf
Compiled from DocFooter.java
public class DocFooter extends java.applet.Applet {
	java.lang.String date;
	java.lang.String email;
	public void init();
	public void paint(java.awt.Graphics);
	public DocFooter();
}
\f1
.fi 
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are supported:
.TP 15
.B  \-b
Ensures backward compatibility with
.B  javap
in JDK 1.1.
.TP 15
.BI  \-bootclasspath " path"
Specifies path from which to load bootstrap classes.  By
default, the bootstrap classes are the classes implementing
the core Java platform located in 
.B jre/lib/rt.jar
and
.BR jre/lib/charsets.jar .
.TP 15
.B \-c
Prints out disassembled code, that is, the instructions
that comprise the Java bytecodes, for each of the
methods in the class. 
These are documented in the Java Virtual Machine Specification.
.TP 15 
.BI \-classpath " path"
Specifies the
.I path
.B javap
uses to look up classes.
Overrides the default or the
.SB CLASSPATH
environment variable if it is set.
Directories are separated by colons
.RB ( : ).
Thus the general format for
.I path
is:
.sp 1n
.RS 20
.B .:<your_path>
.RE
.sp 1n
.RS 15
For example:
.RE
.sp 1n
.RS 20
.B .:/home/avh/classes:/usr/local/java/classes
.RE
.sp 1n
.TP 15
.BI \-extdirs " dirs"
Overrides location at which installed extensions are searched.
The default location for extensions is
.BR jre/lib/ext .
.TP 15
.B \-help
Prints out help message for
.BR javap .
.TP 15
.BI \-J flag
Passes
.I  flag
directly to runtime system.
.RS
.LP
.B javap \-J\-version
.LP
.B javap \-JJ\-Djava.security.manager \\
.br
.B \-Djava.security.policy=MyPolicy MyClassName 
.RE
.TP 15 
.B \-l
Displays line and local variable tables.
.TP 15
.B  \-package
Shows only package, protected, and public classes and
members. This is the default.  
.TP 15
.B  \-private
Shows all classes and members.
.TP 15
.B  \-protected
Shows only protected and public classes and members.
.TP 15
.B  \-public
Shows only public classes and members.
.TP 15
.B  \-s
Displays internal type signatures.
.TP 15
.B \-verbose
Prints stack size, number of
.IR locals ,
and
.I  args
for methods.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP 15
.SB CLASSPATH
Used to provide the system with a path to user-defined
classes. Directories are separated by colons.
For example:
.sp 1n
.RS 10
.B .:/home/avh/classes:/usr/local/java/classes
.RE
.br
.ne 11
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR java (1),
.BR javac (1),
.BR javadoc (1),
.BR javah (1),
.BR jdb (1)
