'\" t
.\"
.\" Copyright 2003 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" SUN PROPRIETARY/CONFIDENTIAL. Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.TH javaws 1 "09 April 2004"
.SH NAME
\fBjavaws \fP- Java Web Start launcher command 
\fB
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.fam C
\fBjavaws\fP [ \fIoptions\fP ] [ \fIURL\fP ]
.fam T
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.if t .TP 20
.if n .TP 15
.B options
Command-line options. 
Options many be in any order. For a
discussion of the various options, 
see OPTIONS below.
.if t .TP 20
.if n .TP 15
.B URL
Uniform Resource Locator (URL) of the JNLP (Java Network 
Launching Protocol) file.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBjavaws\fP command launches Java Web Start, which is the reference
implementation of the Java Network Launching Protocol (JNLP).
Java Web Start launches java application/applets hosted on a network.
.PP
Without any \fIoptions\fP \fBjavaws\fP will launch the Java JNLP 
Application Manager, from which users can launch applications/applet
or configure Java Web Start.
.PP
If a \fIURL\fP for a JNLP file is
specified, \fBjavaws\fP will launch the Java application/applet specified 
in the JNLP file.
.SH OPTIONS
The \fBjavaws\fP launcher has a set of \fIoptions\fP that are supported in the
current release.
However, the \fIoptions\fP may be removed in a future  
release.
All \fB-X\fP \fIoptions\fP are non-standard and subject to change.
.SS
.TP
.B
\fB-offline\fP
Runs Java Web Start in offline mode.
.SS
.TP
.B
\fB-uninstall \fIURL\fP\fP
Removes a specific application/applet from the user's cache, 
as indicated by the \fIURL\fP for the \fBJNLP\fP file. Java Web Start 
will exit after the command has completed.
.SS
.TP
.B
\fB-updateVersions\fP
Updates the Java Web Start configuration file based on the current machine's settings. Java Web Start will exit when the command is completed.
.SS                          
.TP
.B
\fB-Xclearcache\fP
Clears the user's cache.  Java Web Start will exit
after the command has completed.
.SS        
.TP
.B
\fB-Xnosplash\fP
Disables the display of the initial splash screen.
.SS
.TP
.B
\fB-import\fP
Imports the application specified by the \fIURL\fP into the user's cache 
but does not run it..
.SS
.TP
.B
\fB-silent\fP
When used with the -import option, imports in silent mode; i.e., there
will be no UI pop up. The process exit code will be either 0 if
successful or 1 if not.
.SS
.TP
.B
\fB-codebase \fIURL\fP\fP
Replaces the codebase with \fIURL\fP in the jnlp file specified when importing the resources. \fIURL\fP must be a valid URL.
.SS
.TP
.B
\fB-system\fP
Uses the system cache instead of the user cache.
.SS
.TP
.B
\fB-shortcut\fP
Allows the creation of shortcuts during silent import.
.SS
.TP
.B
\fB-association\fP
Allows the creation of associations during silent import.
.SS
.TP
.B
\fB-open \fIarguments\fP\fP
If specified, replaces the arguments in the jnlp file with -open \fIarguments\fP.
.SS
.TP
.B
\fB-print \fIarguments\fP\fP
If specified, replaces the arguments in the jnlp file with -print \fIarguments\fP.
.SS
.TP
.B 
\fB-online\fP
Runs in online mode (default behavior).
.SS
.TP
.B
\fB-viewer\fP
Runs the Java Application Cache Viewer (default if no URL is specified).
.SS
.TP
.B
\fB-userConfig \fIproperty-name\fP\fP
Clears the specified deployment property.
.SS
.TP
.B
\fB-userConfig \fIproperty-name\fP \fIproperty-value\fP\fP
Sets the specified deployment property to the specified value. 
.SS
.TP
.B
\fB-wait\fP
If specified, the javaws process will not exit until the application exits.
.SH FILES
For more information about the user and system cache and 
deployment.properties files, see 
http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.5.0/docs/guide/deployment/deployment-guide/properties.html
.SH MORE INFORMATION
For more information about Java Web Start, see
http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.5.0/docs/guide/javaws/index.html.
