'\" t
.\" @(#)jinfo.1 1.10 04/06/13 SMI;
.\" Copyright 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc. Tous droits réservés.
.\" 
.TH jinfo 1 "13 June 2004"
.SH NAME
jinfo \- configuration info  
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B jinfo 
[
.I option 
] 
.I pid
.br
.B jinfo
[
.I option 
] 
.I executable core
.br
.B jinfo
[
.I option 
] [
.I server-id@
]
.I remote-hostname-or-IP
.SH PARAMETERS
Options are mutually exclusive. Option, if used, should follow
immediately after the command name. See OPTIONS below.
.if t .TP 20
.if n .TP 15
.BI pid
process id for which the configuration info is to be
printed. The process must be a Java process. To get
a list of Java processes running on a machine,
.B jps
many be used.
.if t .TP 20
.if n .TP 15
.BI executable
Java executable from which the core dump was produced.
.if t .TP 20
.if n .TP 15
.BI core
core file for which the configuration info is to be printed.
.if t .TP 20
.if n .TP 15
.BI remote-hostname-or-IP
remote debug server's (see jsadebugd) hostname or IP address.
.if t .TP 20
.if n .TP 15
.BI server-id
optional unique id, if multiple debug servers are 
running on the same remote host.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B jinfo 
prints Java configuration information for a given 
Java process or core file or a remote debug server. 
Configuration information
includes Java System properties and Java virtual 
machine command line flags. 
.LP
.B NOTE -
This utility is unsupported and may or may not be 
available in future versions of the J2SE SDK. 
.B jinfo is not
currently available on Windows platforms or 
on the Linux Itanium platform. 
.SH OPTIONS
.if t .TP 20
.if n .TP 15
.BI " <no option>"
prints both command line flags as well as System 
properties name, value pairs
.if t .TP 20
.if n .TP 15
.BI \-flags
prints command line flags as name, value pairs
.if t .TP 20
.if n .TP 15
.BI \-sysprops
prints JavaSystem properties as name, value pairs
.if t .TP 20
.if n .TP 15
.BI \-h
prints a help message
.if t .TP 20
.if n .TP 15
.BI \-help
prints a help message
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR jps (1)
.BR jsadebugd (1)
