.Dd 19 April, 2014
.Dt launchd.plist 5
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME
.Nm launchd.plist
.Nd System wide and per-user daemon/agent configuration files
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This document details the parameters that can be given to an XML property list
that can be loaded into
.Nm launchd
with
.Nm launchctl .
.Sh EXPECTATIONS
Daemons or agents managed by
.Nm launchd
are expected to behave certain ways.
.Pp
A daemon or agent launched by
.Nm launchd
MUST NOT do the following in the process directly launched by
.Nm launchd :
.Pp
.Bl -bullet -offset indent -compact
.It
Call
.Xr daemon 3 .
.It
Do the moral equivalent of
.Xr daemon 3
by calling
.Xr fork 2
and have the parent process
.Xr exit 3
or
.Xr _exit 2 .
.El
.Pp
A
.Nm launchd
daemon or agent should not perform the following as part of its initialization,
as launchd will always implicitly perform them on behalf of the process.
.Pp
.Bl -bullet -offset indent -compact
.It
Redirect
.Xr stdio 3
to /dev/null.
.El
.Pp
A
.Nm launchd
daemon or agent need not perform the following as part of its initialization,
since
.Nm launchd
can perform them on the process' behalf with the appropriate
.Nm
keys specified.
.Pp
.Bl -bullet -offset indent -compact
.It
Setup the user ID or group ID.
.It
Setup the working directory.
.It
.Xr chroot 2
.It
.Xr setsid 2
.It
Close "stray" file descriptors.
.It
Setup resource limits with
.Xr setrlimit 2 .
.It
Setup priority with
.Xr setpriority 2 .
.El
.Pp
A daemon or agent launched by
.Nm launchd
SHOULD:
.Pp
.Bl -bullet -offset indent -compact
.It
Launch on demand given criteria specified in the XML property list. More
information can be found later in this man page.
.It
Handle the SIGTERM signal, preferably with a
.Xr dispatch 3
source, and respond to this signal by unwinding any outstanding work quickly
and then exiting.
.El
.Pp
A daemon or agent launched by
.Nm launchd
.Em MUST :
.Pp
.Bl -bullet -offset indent -compact
.It
check in for any
.Nm MachServices
advertised in its plist, using
.Xr xpc_connection_create_mach_service 3
(or
.Xr bootstrap_check_in 3 )
if it uses MIG or raw Mach for communication
.It
check in for any
.Nm LaunchEvents
advertised in its plist, using
.Xr xpc_set_event_stream_handler 3
.El
.Sh XML PROPERTY LIST KEYS
The following keys can be used to describe the configuration details of your
daemon or agent. Property lists are Apple's standard configuration file format.
Please see
.Xr plist 5
for more information. Please note: property list files are expected to have
their name end in ".plist". Also please note that it is the expected convention
for launchd property list files to be named <Label>.plist. Thus, if your job
label is "com.apple.sshd", your plist file should be named
"com.apple.sshd.plist".
.Pp
.Bl -ohang
.It Sy Label <string>
This required key uniquely identifies the job to
.Nm launchd .
.It Sy Disabled <boolean>
This optional key specifies whether the job should be loaded by default. Note
that this key may be overridden through the
.Ar enable
subcommand of
.Xr launchctl 3 .
Previous Darwin operating systems would modify the configuration file's value
for this key, but now this state is kept externally.
.It Sy UserName <string>
This optional key specifies the user to run the job as. This key is only
applicable for services that are loaded into the privileged system domain.
.It Sy GroupName <string>
This optional key specifies the group to run the job as. This key is only
applicable for services that are loaded into the privileged system domain. If
UserName is set and GroupName is not, then the group will be set to the primary
group of the user.
.It Sy inetdCompatibility <dictionary>
The presence of this key specifies that the daemon expects to be run as if it
were launched from inetd. For new projects, this key should be avoided.
.Bl -ohang -offset indent
.It Sy Wait <boolean>
This flag corresponds to the "wait" or "nowait" option of inetd. If true, then
the listening socket is passed via the
.Xr stdio 3
file descriptors. If false, then
.Xr accept 2
is called on behalf of the job, and the result is passed via the
.Xr stdio 3
descriptors.
.El
.It Sy LimitLoadToHosts <array of strings>
This configuration file only applies to the hosts listed with this key. This
key is no longer supported.
.It Sy LimitLoadFromHosts <array of strings>
This configuration file only applies to hosts NOT listed with this key. This
key is no longer supported.
.It Sy LimitLoadToSessionType <string or array or strings>
This configuration file only applies to sessions of the type(s) specified. This
key only applies to jobs which are agents. There are no distinct sessions in the
privileged system context.
.It Sy LimitLoadToHardware <dictionary of arrays>
This configuration file only applies to the hardware listed with this key. Each
key in the dictionary defines a subdomain of the "hw"
.Xr sysctl 3
domain. Each value of the value defines valid values for the job to load. So a
key of "model" with an array specifying only "MacBookPro4,2" would only load
on a machine whose "hw.model" value was "MacBookPro4,2".
.It Sy Program <string>
This key maps to the first argument of
.Xr execv 3
and indicates the absolute path to the executable for the job. If this key is
missing, then the first element of the array of strings provided to the
.Nm ProgramArguments
will be used instead. This key is required in the absence of the
.Nm ProgramArguments
key.
.It Sy ProgramArguments <array of strings>
This key maps to the second argument of
.Xr execvp 3
and specifies the argument vector to be passed to the job when a process is
spawned. This key is required in the absence of the Program key.
.Em IMPORTANT:
Many people are confused by this key. Please read
.Xr execvp 3
very carefully!
.Pp
.Em NOTE:
The
.Nm Program
key must be an absolute path. Previous versions of launchd did not
enforce this requirement but failed to run the job. In the absence of the
.Nm Program
key, the first element of the
.Nm ProgramArguments
array may be either an
absolute path, or a relative path which is resolved using _PATH_STDPATH.
.It Sy EnableGlobbing <boolean>
This flag causes
.Nm launchd
to use the
.Xr glob 3
mechanism to update the program arguments before invocation.
.It Sy EnableTransactions <boolean>
This key instructs
.Nm launchd
that the job promises to use
.Xr xpc_transaction_begin 3
and
.Xr xpc_transaction_end 3
to track outstanding transactions that need to be reconciled before the process
can safely terminate. If no outstanding transactions are in progress, then
.Nm launchd
will SIGKILL the process when it determines that the job needs to be stopped.
.It Sy EnablePressuredExit <boolean>
This key opts the job into the system's Pressured Exit facility. Use of this key
implies the same responsibilities as use of the
.Nm EnableTransactions
key, but it also enables automatic tracking of activity based on XPC message
lifetime. If the job becomes clean, the system will consider it eligible for
reclamation under memory pressure. See
.Xr xpc_main 3
for details.
.Pp
.Em NOTE :
Jobs which opt into Pressured Exit have a more heavily-managed lifecycle than
normal jobs, and they will be automatically relaunched if they exit while
holding open transactions. Therefore,
.Xr launchd 8
does not respect
.Fa KeepAlive
criteria for jobs which have opted into Pressured Exit.
.Pp
.Em IMPORTANT :
Jobs which opt into Pressured Exit will ignore SIGTERM rather than exiting by
default, so a
.Xr dispatch 3
source must be used when handling this signal.
.It Sy OnDemand <boolean>
This key does nothing if set to true. If set to false, this key is equivalent to
specifying a true value for the
.Nm KeepAlive
key. This key should not be used. Please remove this key from your
.Nm .
.It Sy ServiceIPC <boolean>
Please remove this key from your
.Nm .
.It Sy KeepAlive <boolean or dictionary of stuff>
This optional key is used to control whether your job is to be kept continuously
running or to let demand and conditions control the invocation. The default is
false and therefore only demand will start the job. The value may be set to true
to unconditionally keep the job alive. Alternatively, a dictionary of conditions
may be specified to selectively control whether
.Nm launchd
keeps a job alive or not. If multiple keys are provided, launchd ORs them, thus
providing maximum flexibility to the job to refine the logic and stall if
necessary. If
.Nm launchd
finds no reason to restart the job, it falls back on demand based invocation.
Jobs that exit quickly and frequently when configured to be kept alive will be
throttled to conserve system resources.
.Bl -ohang -offset indent
.It Sy SuccessfulExit <boolean>
If true, the job will be restarted as long as the program exits and with an exit
status of zero.  If false, the job will be restarted in the inverse condition.
This key implies that "RunAtLoad" is set to true, since the job needs to run at
least once before an exit status can be determined.
.It Sy NetworkState <boolean>
This key is no longer implemented as it never acted how most users expected.
.It Sy PathState <dictionary of booleans>
Each key in this dictionary is a file-system path. If the value of the key is
true, then the job will be kept alive as long as the path exists.
If false, the job will be kept alive in the inverse condition. The intent of
this feature is that two or more jobs may create semaphores in the file-
system namespace. The following example keeps the job alive as long as the
file
.Nm /path/to/file
exists.
.Pp
.Dl <key>KeepAlive</key>
.Dl <dict>
.Dl 	<key>PathState</key>
.Dl 	<dict>
.Dl			<key>/path/to/file</key>
.Dl			<true/>
.Dl		</dict>
.Dl </dict>
.Pp
.Em IMPORTANT :
Filesystem monitoring mechanisms are inherently race-prone and lossy. This
option should be avoided in favor of demand-based alternatives using IPC.
.It Sy OtherJobEnabled <dictionary of booleans>
Each key in this dictionary is the name of another job. If the value is true,
then the job will be kept alive as long as one of the specified other jobs is
loaded in
.Xr launchd 8 .
.Pp
.Em NOTE :
This key only evaluates whether the job is loaded, not whether it is
running. Use of this key is highly discouraged. If multiple jobs need to
coordinate coordinate their lifecycles, they should establish contracts using
IPC.
.It Sy Crashed <boolean>
If true, the the job will be restarted as long as it exited due to a signal
which is typically associated with a crash (SIGILL, SIGSEGV, etc.). If false,
the job will be restarted in the inverse condition.
.El
.It Sy RunAtLoad <boolean>
This optional key is used to control whether your job is launched once at the
time the job is loaded. The default is false. This key should be avoided, as
speculative job launches have an adverse effect on system-boot and user-login
scenarios.
.It Sy RootDirectory <string>
This optional key is used to specify a directory to
.Xr chroot 2
to before running the job.
.Pp
.Em IMPORTANT :
iOS and OS X both make significant use of IPC to implement features. The details
of the communication between a client and server are typically implemented in
dynamic library code that is abstracted away from the caller beneath the API
boundary so that the client of a daemon is not aware of any IPC that is
happening.
.Pp
So unless the library stack which exists in the jail specified by this key or a
call to
.Xr chroot 2
is identical to the one shipping on the system, there is no guarantee that a
process running in that jail will know how to communicate with the daemons on
the system. Mismatches in the library stack between the jail and the system can
manifest as random failures, hangs and crashes.
.Pp
For these reasons, it is highly recommended that you avoid making use of this
key unless you have taken special precautions to ensure that the job in question
never attempts any IPC by setting the XPC_NULL_BOOTSTRAP environment variable to
a value of "1". Note that even if you have done this, you must also take special
care to propagate this environment variable to any child processes your job may
spawn through
.Xr fork 2
or
.Xr posix_spawn 2 .
And even if you have done that, there is no guarantee that any subprocesses
spawned by your child processes will take care to do the same thing unless you
completely control all possible chains of execution, which is unlikely.
.It Sy WorkingDirectory <string>
This optional key is used to specify a directory to
.Xr chdir 2
to before running the job.
.It Sy EnvironmentVariables <dictionary of strings>
This optional key is used to specify additional environmental variables to be
set before running the job. Each key in the dictionary is the name of an
environment variable, with the corresponding value being a string representing
the desired value.
.Em NOTE :
Values other than strings will be ignored.
.It Sy Umask <integer or string>
This optional key specifies what value should be passed to
.Xr umask 2
before running the job. If the value specified is an integer, it must be a
decimal representation of the desired
.Xr umask ,
as property lists do not support encoding integers in octal. If a string is
given, the string will be converted into an integer as per the rules described
in
.Xr strtoul 3 ,
and an octal value may be specified by prefixing the string with a '0'. If a
string that does not cleanly convert to an integer is specified, the behavior
will be to set a
.Xr umask 2
according to the
.Xr strtoul 3
parsing rules.
.It Sy TimeOut <integer>
The recommended idle time out (in seconds) to pass to the job. This key never
did anything interesting and is no longer implemented. Jobs seeking to exit when
idle should use the EnablePressuredExit key to opt into the system mechanism for
reclaiming killable jobs under memory pressure.
.It Sy ExitTimeOut <integer>
The amount of time
.Nm launchd
waits between sending the SIGTERM signal and before sending a SIGKILL signal
when the job is to be stopped. The default value is system-defined. The value
zero is interpreted as infinity and should not be used, as it can stall system
shutdown forever.
.It Sy ThrottleInterval <integer>
This key lets one override the default throttling policy imposed on jobs by
.Nm launchd .
The value is in seconds, and by default, jobs will not be spawned more than once
every 10 seconds. The principle behind this is that jobs should linger around
just in case they are needed again in the near future. This not only reduces the
latency of responses, but it encourages developers to amortize the cost of
program invocation.
.It Sy InitGroups <boolean>
This optional key specifies whether
.Xr initgroups 3
to initialize the group list for the job. The default is true. This key will be
ignored if the
.Nm UserName
key is not set. Note that for agents, the
.Nm UserName
key is ignored.
.It Sy WatchPaths <array of strings>
This optional key causes the job to be started if any one of the listed paths
are modified.
.Pp
.Em IMPORTANT :
Use of this key is highly discouraged, as filesystem event monitoring is highly
race-prone, and it is entirely possible for modifications to be missed. When
modifications are caught, there is no guarantee that the file will be in a
consistent state when the job is launched.
.It Sy QueueDirectories <array of strings>
This optional key keeps the job alive as long as the directory or directories
specified are not empty.
.It Sy StartOnMount <boolean>
This optional key causes the job to be started every time a filesystem is
mounted.
.It Sy StartInterval <integer>
This optional key causes the job to be started every N seconds. If the system is
asleep during the time of the next scheduled interval firing, that interval will
be missed due to shortcomings in
.Xr kqueue 3 .
If the job is running during an interval firing, that interval firing will
likewise be missed.
.It Sy StartCalendarInterval <dictionary of integers or array of dictionaries of integers>
This optional key causes the job to be started every calendar interval as
specified. Missing arguments are considered to be wildcard. The semantics are
similar to
.Xr crontab 5
in how firing dates are specified. Multiple dictionaries may be specified in an
array to schedule multiple calendar intervals.
.Pp
Unlike cron which skips job invocations when the computer is asleep, launchd
will start the job the next time the computer wakes up.  If multiple intervals
transpire before the computer is woken, those events will be coalesced into one
event upon wake from sleep.
.Pp
Note that
.Nm StartInterval
and
.Nm StartCalendarInterval
are not aware of each other. They are evaluated completely independently by the
system.
.Bl -ohang -offset indent
.It Sy Minute <integer>
The minute (0-59) on which this job will be run.
.It Sy Hour <integer>
The hour (0-23) on which this job will be run.
.It Sy Day <integer>
The day of the month (1-31) on which this job will be run.
.It Sy Weekday <integer>
The weekday on which this job will be run (0 and 7 are Sunday). If both
.Nm Day
and
.Nm Weekday
are specificed, then the job will be started if either one matches the current
date.
.It Sy Month <integer>
The month (1-12) on which this job will be run.
.El
.It Sy StandardInPath <string>
This optional key specifies that the given path should be mapped to the job's
.Xr stdin 4 ,
and that the contents of that file will be readable from the job's
.Xr stdin 4 .
If the file does not exist, no data will be delivered to the process'
.Xr stdin 4 .
.It Sy StandardOutPath <string>
This optional key specifies that the given path should be mapped to the job's
.Xr stdout 4 ,
and that any writes to the job's
.Xr stdout 4
will go to the given file. If the file does not exist, it will be created with
writable permissions and ownership reflecting the user and/or group specified as
the
.Nm UserName
and/or
.Nm GroupName ,
respectively (if set) and permissions reflecting the
.Xr umask 2
specified by the
.Nm Umask
key, if set.
.It Sy StandardErrorPath <string>
This optional key specifies that the given path should be mapped to the job's
.Xr stderr 4 ,
and that any writes to the job's
.Xr stderr 4
will go to the given file. Note that this file is opened as readable and
writable as mandated by the POSIX specification for unclear reasons.  If the
file does not exist, it will be created with ownership reflecting the user
and/or group specified as the
.Nm UserName
and/or
.Nm GroupName ,
respectively (if set) and permissions reflecting the
.Xr umask 2
specified by the
.Nm Umask
key, if set.
.It Sy Debug <boolean>
This optional key specifies that
.Nm launchd
should adjust its log mask temporarily to LOG_DEBUG while dealing with this job.
.It Sy WaitForDebugger <boolean>
This optional key specifies that
.Nm launchd
should launch the job in a suspended state so that a debugger can be attached to
the process as early as possible (at the first instruction).
.It Sy SoftResourceLimits <dictionary of integers>
.It Sy HardResourceLimits <dictionary of integers>
Resource limits to be imposed on the job. These adjust variables set with
.Xr setrlimit 2 .
The following keys apply:
.Bl -ohang -offset indent
.It Sy Core <integer>
The largest size (in bytes) core file that may be created.
.It Sy CPU <integer>
The maximum amount of cpu time (in seconds) to be used by each process.
.It Sy Data <integer>
The maximum size (in bytes) of the data segment for a process; this defines how
far a program may extend its break with the
.Xr sbrk 2
system call.
.It Sy FileSize <integer>
The largest size (in bytes) file that may be created.
.It Sy MemoryLock <integer>
The maximum size (in bytes) which a process may lock into memory using the
.Xr mlock 2
function.
.It Sy NumberOfFiles <integer>
The maximum number of open files for this process.
Setting this value in a system wide daemon will set the 
.Xr sysctl 3 
kern.maxfiles (SoftResourceLimits) or kern.maxfilesperproc (HardResourceLimits)
value in addition to the
.Xr setrlimit 2
values.
.It Sy NumberOfProcesses <integer>
The maximum number of simultaneous processes for this UID. Setting this value in
a system wide daemon will set the
.Xr sysctl 3 
kern.maxproc (SoftResourceLimits) or kern.maxprocperuid (HardResourceLimits) 
value in addition to the
.Xr setrlimit 2
values.
.It Sy ResidentSetSize <integer>
The maximum size (in bytes) to which a process's resident set size may grow.
This imposes a limit on the amount of physical memory to be given to a process;
if memory is tight, the system will prefer to take memory from processes that
are exceeding their declared resident set size.
.It Sy Stack <integer>
The maximum size (in bytes) of the stack segment for a process; this defines how
far a program's stack segment may be extended.  Stack extension is performed
automatically by the system.
.El
.It Sy Nice <integer>
This optional key specifies what
.Xr nice 3
value should be applied to the daemon.
.It Sy ProcessType <string>
This optional key describes, at a high level, the intended purpose of the job.
The system will apply resource limits based on what kind of job it is. If left
unspecified, the system will apply light resource limits to the job, throttling
its CPU usage and I/O bandwidth. This classification is preferable to using the
HardResourceLimits, SoftResourceLimits and Nice keys. The following are valid
values:
.Bl -ohang -offset indent
.It Sy Background
Background jobs are generally processes that do work that was not directly
requested by the user. The resource limits applied to Background jobs are
intended to prevent them from disrupting the user experience.
.It Sy Standard
Standard jobs are equivalent to no ProcessType being set.
.It Sy Adaptive
Adaptive jobs move between the Background and Interactive classifications based
on activity over XPC connections. See
.Xr xpc_transaction_begin 3
for details.
.It Sy Interactive
Interactive jobs run with the same resource limitations as apps, that is to say,
none. Interactive jobs are critical to maintaining a responsive user experience,
and this key should only be used if an app's ability to be responsive depends
on it, and cannot be made Adaptive.
.El
.It Sy AbandonProcessGroup <boolean>
When a job dies,
.Nm launchd
kills any remaining processes with the same process group ID as the job. Setting
this key to true disables that behavior.
.It Sy LowPriorityIO <boolean>
This optional key specifies whether the kernel should consider this daemon to be
low priority when doing filesystem I/O.
.It Sy LowPriorityBackgroundIO <boolean>
This optional key specifies whether the kernel should consider this daemon to be
low priority when doing filesystem I/O when the process is throttled with the
Darwin-background classification.
.It Sy LaunchOnlyOnce <boolean>
This optional key specifies whether the job can only be run once and only once.
In other words, if the job cannot be safely respawned without a full machine
reboot, then set this key to be true.
.It Sy MachServices <dictionary of booleans or a dictionary of dictionaries>
This optional key is used to specify Mach services to be registered with the
Mach bootstrap namespace. Each key in this dictionary should be the name of a
service to be advertised. The value of the key must be a boolean and set to
true or a dictionary in order for the service to be advertised. Valid keys in
this dictionary are:
.Bl -ohang -offset indent
.It Sy ResetAtClose <boolean>
The default value for this keyis false, and so the port is recycled, thus
leaving clients to remain oblivious to the demand nature of the job. If the
value is set to true, clients receive port death notifications when the job lets
go of the receive right. The port will be recreated atomically with respect to
bootstrap_look_up() calls, so that clients can trust that after receiving a
port-death notification, the new port will have already been recreated. Setting
the value to true should be done with care. Not all clients may be able to
handle this behavior. The default value is false.
.Pp
Note that this option is not compatible with
.Xr xpc 3 ,
which automatically handles notifying clients of interrupted connections and
server death.
.It Sy HideUntilCheckIn <boolean>
Reserve the name in the namespace, but cause bootstrap_look_up() to fail until
the job has checked in with
.Nm launchd .
.Pp
This option is incompatible with
.Xr xpc 3 ,
which relies on the constant availability
of services. This option also encourages polling for service availability and is
therefore generally discouraged. Future implementations will penalize use of
this option in subtle and creative ways.
.Pp
Jobs can dequeue messages from the MachServices they advertised with
.Xr xpc_connection_create_mach_service 3
or bootstrap_check_in() API (to obtain the underlying port's receive right) and
the Mach APIs to dequeue messages from that port.
.Pp
.El
.It Sy Sockets <dictionary of dictionaries... OR dictionary of array of dictionaries...>
This optional key is used to specify launch on demand sockets that can be used
to let
.Nm launchd
know when to run the job. The job must check-in to get a copy of the file
descriptors using the
.Xr launch_activate_sockets 3
API.
The keys of the top level Sockets dictionary can be anything. These keys are
meant for the application developer to associate which socket descriptors
correspond to which application level protocols (e.g. http vs. ftp
vs. DNS...).
.Pp
The parameters below are used as inputs to call
.Xr getaddrinfo 3 .
.Bl -ohang -offset indent
.It Sy SockType <string>
This optional key tells
.Nm launchctl
what type of socket to create. The default is "stream" and other valid values
for this key are "dgram" and "seqpacket" respectively.
.It Sy SockPassive <boolean>
This optional key specifies whether
.Xr listen 2
or
.Xr connect 2
should be called on the created file descriptor. The default is true, to listen
for new connections.
.It Sy SockNodeName <string>
This optional key specifies the node to
.Xr connect 2
or
.Xr bind 2
to.
.It Sy SockServiceName <string or integer>
This optional key specifies the service on the node to
.Xr connect 2
or
.Xr bind 2
to. It may be a port number represented as an integer or a service name
represented as a string ("ssh", "telnet", etc.)
.It Sy SockFamily <string>
This optional key can be used to specifically request that "IPv4" or "IPv6"
socket(s) be created. An additional option, "IPv4v6" indicates that a single
socket that listens for both IPv4 and IPv6 connections should be created.
.It Sy SockProtocol <string>
This optional key specifies the protocol to be passed to
.Xr socket 2 .
The only values understood by this key at the moment are "TCP" and "UDP".
.It Sy SockPathName <string>
This optional key implies SockFamily is set to "Unix". It specifies the path to
.Xr connect 2
or
.Xr bind 2
to.
.It Sy SecureSocketWithKey <string>
This optional key is a variant of SockPathName. Instead of binding to a known
path, a securely generated socket is created and the path is assigned to the
environment variable that is inherited by all jobs spawned in the job's context.
.It Sy SockPathOwner <integer>
This optional key specifies the user ID that should be the domain socket's
owner.
.It Sy SockPathGroup <integer>
This optional key specifies the group ID that should be set as the domain
socket's group.
.It Sy SockPathMode <integer>
This optional key specifies the mode of the socket. Known bug: Property lists
don't support octal, so please convert the value to decimal.
.It Sy Bonjour <boolean or string or array of strings>
This optional key can be used to request that the service be registered with the
the Bonjour subsystem. If the value is boolean, the service name is inferred
from the SockServiceName.
.It Sy MulticastGroup <string>
This optional key can be used to request that the datagram socket join a
multicast group. If the value is a hostname, then
.Xr getaddrinfo 3
will be used to join the correct multicast address for a given socket family.
If an explicit IPv4 or IPv6 address is given, it is required that the
SockFamily family also be set, otherwise the results are undefined.
.El
.It Sy LaunchEvents <dictionary of dictionaries of dictionaries>
Specifies higher-level event types to be used as launch-on-demand event sources.
Each sub-dictionary defines events for a particular event subsystem, such as
"com.apple.iokit.matching", which can be used to launch jobs based on the
appearance of nodes in the IORegistry. Each dictionary within the sub-dictionary
specifies an event descriptor that is specified to each event subsystem. With
this key, the job promises to use the
.Xr xpc_set_event_stream_handler 3
API to consume events. See
.Xr xpc_events 3
for more details on event sources.
.It Sy HopefullyExitsLast <string>
This key was a hack for jobs which could not properly keep track of their
clients and is no longer implemented.
.It Sy HopefullyExitsFirst <string>
This key was a hack for jobs which could not properly keep track of their
clients and is no longer implemented.
.It Sy SessionCreate <boolean>
This key specifies that the job should be spawned into a new security audit
session rather than the default session for the context is belongs to. See
.Xr auditon 2
for details.
.It Sy LegacyTimers <boolean>
This optional key controls the behavior of timers created by the job. By default
on OS X Mavericks version 10.9 and later, timers created by launchd jobs are
coalesced. Batching the firing of timers with similar deadlines improves the
overall energy efficiency of the system. If this key is set to true, timers
created by the job will opt into less efficient but more precise behavior and
not be coalesced with other timers. This key may have no effect if the job's
.Fa ProcessType
is not set to Interactive.
.El
.Pp
.Sh DEPENDENCIES
Unlike many bootstrapping daemons, launchd has no explicit dependency model.
Interdependencies are expected to be solved through the use of IPC. It is
therefore in the best interest of a job developer who expects dependents to
define all of the sockets in the configuration file. This has the added benefit
of making it possible to start the job based on demand instead of immediately.
.Nm launchd
will continue to place as many restrictions on jobs that do not conform to this
model as possible.
.Sh EXAMPLE XML PROPERTY LISTS
.Pp
The following XML Property List describes an on-demand daemon that will only
launch when a message arrives on the "com.example.exampled" MachService.
.Pp
.Dl <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
.Dl <!DOCTYPE plist PUBLIC \(dq-//Apple Computer//DTD PLIST 1.0//EN\(dq \(dqhttp://www.apple.com/DTDs/PropertyList-1.0.dtd\(dq>
.Dl <plist version="1.0">
.Dl <dict>
.Dl 	<key>Label</key>
.Dl 	<string>com.example.exampled</string>
.Dl 	<key>Program</key>
.Dl		<string>/path/tp/exampled</string>
.Dl 	<key>ProgramArguments</key>
.Dl 	<array>
.Dl 		<string>exampled</string>
.Dl			<string>argv1</string>
.Dl			<string>argv2</string>
.Dl 	</array>
.Dl 	<key>MachServices</key>
.Dl 	<dict>
.Dl			<key>com.example.exampled</key>
.Dl			<true/>
.Dl		</dict>
.Dl </dict>
.Dl </plist>
.Pp
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width "/System/Library/LaunchDaemons" -compact
.It Pa ~/Library/LaunchAgents
Per-user agents provided by the user.
.It Pa /Library/LaunchAgents
Per-user agents provided by the administrator.
.It Pa /Library/LaunchDaemons
System-wide daemons provided by the administrator.
.It Pa /System/Library/LaunchAgents
Per-user agents provided by OS X.
.It Pa /System/Library/LaunchDaemons
System-wide daemons provided by OS X.
.El
.Sh CAVEATS
In the description of the
.Fa OnDemand
key, an earlier version of this manual page said true when it meant false and
said false when it meant true. You may only ask one true/false question to
determine which one is correct. Just kidding! This version of the manual
page is definitely telling the truth.
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.Xr launchctl 1 ,
.Xr sysctl 3 ,
.Xr launchd 8 ,
.Xr plist 5
