.TH NISPLUS_TABLE 5 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
nisplus_table
\-
Postfix NIS+ client
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
\fBpostmap \-q "\fIstring\fB" "nisplus:[\fIname\fB=%s];\fIname.name.\fB"\fR

\fBpostmap \-q \- "nisplus:[\fIname\fB=%s];\fIname.name.\fB" <\fIinputfile\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
The Postfix mail system uses optional lookup tables.
These tables are usually in \fBdbm\fR or \fBdb\fR format.
Alternatively, lookup tables can be specified as NIS+
databases.

To find out what types of lookup tables your Postfix system
supports use the "\fBpostconf \-m\fR" command.

To test Postfix NIS+ lookup tables, use the "\fBpostmap \-q\fR"
command as described in the SYNOPSIS above.
.SH "QUERY SYNTAX"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Most of the NIS+ query is specified via the NIS+ map name. The
general format of a Postfix NIS+ map name is as follows:

.fi
    \fBnisplus:[\fIname\fB=%s];\fIname.name.name\fB.:\fIcolumn\fR
.fi

Postfix NIS+ map names differ from what one normally
would use with commands such as \fBniscat\fR:
.IP \(bu
With each NIS+ table lookup, "\fB%s\fR" is replaced by a
version of the lookup string.  There can be only one
"\fB%s\fR" instance in a Postfix NIS+ map name.
.IP \(bu
Postfix NIS+ map names use "\fB;\fR" instead of "\fB,\fR",
because the latter character is special in the Postfix
main.cf file.  Postfix replaces "\fB;\fR" characters in
the map name by "\fB,\fR" before making NIS+ queries.
.IP \(bu
The ":\fIcolumn\fR" part in the NIS+ map name is not part
of the actual NIS+ query. Instead, it specifies the number
of the table column that provides the lookup result. When
no ":\fIcolumn\fR" is specified the first column (1) is used.
.SH "EXAMPLE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
A NIS+ aliases map might be queried as follows:

.nf
    alias_maps = dbm:/etc/mail/aliases,
        nisplus:[alias=%s];mail_aliases.org_dir.$mydomain.:1
.fi

This queries the local aliases file before the NIS+ file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
postmap(1), Postfix lookup table manager
.SH "README FILES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Use "\fBpostconf readme_directory\fR" or
"\fBpostconf html_directory\fR" to locate this information.
.na
.nf
DATABASE_README, Postfix lookup table overview
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
The Secure Mailer license must be distributed with this software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Geoff Gibbs
UK\-HGMP\-RC
Hinxton
Cambridge
CB10 1SB, UK

Adopted and adapted by:
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA

Wietse Venema
Google, Inc.
111 8th Avenue
New York, NY 10011, USA
