.lf 1 stdin
.TH SLAPO-COLLECT 5 "2011/11/24" "OpenLDAP 2.4.28"
.\" Copyright 2003-2011 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.SH NAME
slapo\-collect \- Collective attributes overlay to slapd
.SH SYNOPSIS
/etc/openldap/slapd.conf
.SH DESCRIPTION
The collect overlay is used to provide a relatively coarse
implementation of RFC 3671 collective attributes.
In X.500, a collective attribute is "a user attribute whose
values are the same for each member of an entry collection".

Collective attributes are added to entries returned by a search operation
when the entry is within the scope of the related ancestor.
Collective attributes can only be modified when the modification affects
the related ancestor.

.SH CONFIGURATION
This
.B slapd.conf
option applies to the collect overlay.
It should appear after the
.B overlay
directive.
.TP
.B collectinfo <DN> <attrlist>
Specify the
.B DN
of the ancestor entry and the set of related collective attributes, where
.B attrlist
is a comma-separated list of attributes.
The
.B DN 
should be within the naming context of the database.

.SH FILES
.TP
/etc/openldap/slapd.conf
default slapd configuration file
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR slapd.conf (5),
.BR slapd\-config (5),
The
.BR slapo\-collect (5)
overlay supports dynamic configuration via
.BR back-config .
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
This module was written in 2003 by Howard Chu.
This man page was written in 2008 by Pierangelo Masarati.
.lf 1 ./../Project
.\" Shared Project Acknowledgement Text
.B "OpenLDAP Software"
is developed and maintained by The OpenLDAP Project <http://www.openldap.org/>.
.B "OpenLDAP Software"
is derived from University of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.  
.lf 53 stdin
