.\" Copyright (c) 1985, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     from: @(#)ttys.5	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" $FreeBSD: src/libexec/getty/ttys.5,v 1.18 2005/06/14 08:40:10 ru Exp $
.\" "
.Dd May 27, 2005
.Dt TTYS 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ttys
.Nd terminal initialization information
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The file
.Nm
contains information that is used by various routines to initialize
and control the use of terminal special files.
This information is read with the
.Xr getttyent 3
library routines.
There is one line in the
.Nm
file per special device file.
Fields are separated by tabs and/or spaces.
Fields comprised of more than one word should be enclosed in double
quotes (``"'').
Blank lines and comments may appear anywhere in the file; comments
are delimited by hash marks (``#'') and new lines.
Any unspecified fields will default to null.
.Pp
The first field is normally the
name of the terminal special file as it is found in
.Pa /dev .
However, it can be any arbitrary string
when the associated command is not related to a tty.
.Pp
The second field of the file is the command to execute for the line,
usually
.Xr getty 8 ,
which initializes and opens the line, setting the speed, waiting for
a user name and executing the
.Xr login 1
program.
It can be, however, any desired command, for example
the start up for a window system terminal emulator or some other
daemon process, and can contain multiple words if quoted.
.Pp
The third field is the type of terminal usually connected to that
tty line, normally the one found in the
.Xr termcap 5
data base file.
The environment variable
.Ev TERM
is initialized with the value by
either
.Xr getty 8
or
.Xr login 1 .
.Pp
The remaining fields set flags in the
.Fa ty_status
entry (see
.Xr getttyent 3 ) ,
specify a window system process that
.Xr launchd 8
will maintain for the terminal line.
.Pp
As flag values, the strings ``on'' and ``off'' specify that
.Xr launchd 8
should (should not) execute the command given in the second field,
while ``secure'' (if ``on'' is also specified) allows users with a
uid of 0 to login on
this line.
The flags ``local'', ``rtscts'', ``mdmbuf'', and ``softcar''
modify the default behaviour of the terminal line, and their actions
are driver dependent.
The ``local'' flag causes the driver to
treat the line as if it locally connected.
The ``rtscts'' flag
instructs the driver to use RTS/CTS hardware flow control, if
possible.
The ``mdmbuf'' flag instructs the driver to use
DTR/DCD flow control, if possible.
The ``softcar'' flag causes the driver to ignore
hardware carrier on the line.
These flag fields should not be quoted.
.Pp
The string ``window='' may be followed by a quoted command
string which
.Xr launchd 8
will execute
.Em before
starting the command specified by the second field.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /etc/ttys -compact
.It Pa /etc/ttys
.El
.Sh NUMERIC SEQUENCES
Numeric sequences of terminals can be represented in a more compact format.
A matching pair of square bracket may enclose two numbers (the start and
stop values), separated by a hyphen.
The numbers are assumed to be decimal, unless prefixed with ``0x'', in which
case they are interpreted as hexadecimal.
The number of characters (not including any ``0x'') in the starting value gives
the minimum width; sequence values are zero padded up to this width.
Thus ``tty[00-07]'' represents the eight terminals ``tty00'' through ``tty07''.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal
# root login on console at 1200 baud
console	"/usr/libexec/getty std.1200"	vt100	on secure
# dialup at 1200 baud, no root logins
ttyd0	"/usr/libexec/getty d1200"	dialup	on 	# 555-1234
# Mike's terminal: hp2621
ttyh0	"/usr/libexec/getty std.9600"	hp2621-nl	on 	# 457 Evans
# John's terminal: vt100
ttyh1	"/usr/libexec/getty std.9600"	vt100	on 		# 459 Evans
# terminal emulate/window system
ttyv0	"/usr/X11/bin/xterm -display :0"	xterm	on window="/usr/X11/bin/X :0"
# the sequence of eight terminals tty00 through tty07
tty[00-07]     "/usr/libexec/getty std.9600"  vt100      on
# Network pseudo ttys -- don't enable getty
ttyp0	none	network 	
ttyp1	none	network	off	
# All sixteen of a pseudo tty sequence
ttyq[0x0-0xf]  none                           network
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr login 1 ,
.Xr getttyent 3 ,
.Xr ttyslot 3 ,
.Xr gettytab 5 ,
.Xr termcap 5 ,
.Xr getty 8 ,
.Xr launchd 8
.\" .Xr ttyflags 8
.Sh HISTORY
A
.Nm
file appeared in
.At v6 .
