.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.Dd February 13, 2006       \" DATE 
.Dt AUVAL 1       \" Program name and manual section number 
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm auval 
.Nd AudioUnit validation
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Op Fl [-32 | -ppc]
.Op Fl s Ar TYPE
.Op Fl a
.Op Fl v|vt Ar TYPE SUBT MANU [-w] [-de] [-dw]
.Op Fl f Ar file
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
AUValidation tests a specified AudioUnit for API and behavioural conformance.
returns: OK: 0, malformed execution: 1, unit not conformant: -1
.Pp                      \" Inserts a space
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Fl 32 | ppc        \"-a flag as a list item
must be specified first. can specify either: -ppc to run using Rosetta on Intel machine, or -32 to run as 32 bit. If neither specified runs as 64 bit native architecture
.It Fl h                 \"-a flag as a list item
print help text
.It Fl a                 \"-a flag as a list item
lists all available AudioUnits of any type
.It Fl s  Ar TYPE               \"-a flag as a list item
lists all available AudioUnits of type 'TYPE'
.It Fl v  Ar TYPE SUBT MANU               \"-a flag as a list item
opens the AudioUnit specified by the TYPE SUBT MANU component ID's and tests that unit.
.It Fl vt Ar TYPE MANU
iterates through all of the AU's of specified TYPE and MANU
.It Fl de
execution is terminated when first error is encountered
.It Fl dw
execution is terminated when first warning is encountered
.It Fl c
continue validating when an error occurs in batch mode. 
.It Fl q
quiet - does no printing except for errors or warnings
.It Fl qp
doesn't print parameter or Factory Presets information
.It Fl o
only runs a basic open and initialize test. good for debugging basic functionality
.It Fl r Ar N
repeat the whole process of validation N times. good for catching open/init bugs.
.It Fl w
wait after finished - good for profiling memory usage see 'man leaks'
.It Fl vers
The version is printed to stdout.
.It Fl versh
The version is printed to stdout in hexadecimal.
.It Fl f Ar FILENAME
Each line in the file should contain one complete command.
.El
