.ig
Copyright (c) 2010 Apple Inc.  All rights reserved.
@APPLE_BSD_LICENSE_HEADER_START@
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
1.  Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2.  Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
3.  Neither the name of Apple Computer, Inc. ("Apple") nor the names of
    its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
    from this software without specific prior written permission.
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY APPLE AND ITS CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL APPLE OR ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
@APPLE_BSD_LICENSE_HEADER_END@
..
.Dd 7 Mar, 2015
.Dt darwinup 1
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME
.Nm darwinup
.Nd Install, uninstall, and manage roots
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl dfnv
.Op Fl p Ar path
.Ar subcommand 
.Op Ar arguments ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm 
allows you to manage roots, or
archives, of files that replace parts of your system. This is useful
for installing a new version of a library or tool on your system while 
allowing you to uninstall the files and revert back to the originals 
safely and easily.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It \-d
Do not run helpful automation. See HELPFUL AUTOMATION below.
.It \-f
Force. Some operations will fail gracefully due to potentially unsafe 
situations, such as a root that installs a file where a directory is.
In order to have darwinup continue through such a situation, you can
pass the -f option.
.It \-n
Dry run. Darwinup will go through an operation, including analyzing
the root(s) and printing the state/change symbol, but no files will
be modified on your system and no records will be added to the depot.
This option implies -d.
.It \-p Op Ar path
Prefix path. Normally, darwinup will operate on the boot partition. You
can use the -p option to have darwinup work on another partition. You
can provide any arbitrary path, it does not need to be a mount point.
.It \-r
Restart. Gracefully restart after all operations are complete by telling
Finder to restart. 
.It \-v
Verbose. This option causes darwinup to print extra information. You can
pass 2 or 3 v's for even more information, but that is usually only needed
for development and debugging of darwinup itself.
.El
.Sh SUBCOMMANDS
Note that the
.Ar path
and
.Ar archive
options listed below support globbing and multiple items. See the EXAMPLES 
section below for more details.
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It files Ar archives
List the files and directories in the 
.Ar archive .
.It install Ar path
Install the root at 
.Ar path .
.It list Op Ar archive
List archives that are installed. You may optionally provide an
archive specification to limit which archives get listed. 
.It rename Ar archive Ar name
Rename an archive.
.It uninstall Ar archives
Uninstall the specified archive.
.It forget Ar archives
Forgets the specified archive. The archive must have been installed on 
an older base system.
.It upgrade Ar path
Find the last archive that was installed with the same name (basename of 
path), and replace it with the root at 
.Ar path .
.It verify Ar archive
List all of the information about 
.Ar archive .
This includes status letters
detailing how the archive differs from whats on disk
.El
.Sh STATE/CHANGE SYMBOLS
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It ? 
Unknown state. Probably a bug.
.It !
Missing file during uninstall. Darwinup expected a file or directory to 
exist, but it did not. This could be a bug in darwinup, but most likely 
another tool or software update removed a file that darwinup had been 
tracking. It can also be caused by an installation failing due to an
object changing type (see FORCING OPERATIONS below), and the subsequent 
rollback finding the root only partially installed. Since these all 
happen during uninstall, they are typically safe to ignore, since darwinup 
was going to delete the object anyway.
.It A
Added. No previous file or directory existed so the file or directory was
added to your system.
.It E
External change. The file you are installing is different than the 
last file you installed, but it is identical to what was actually found
on disk. This probably means something manually installed a root or software
update without darwinup knowing about it. This is usually harmless. 
.It M 
Mode change. Only changes to permission or ownership were needed to
uninstall the file or directory. 
.It R
Removed. No previous file or directory existed, so the uninstall process
removed the file. 
.It U
Updated. During installation, the file or directory replaces an existing 
object at the same path. During uninstallation, the previous version of
the file was restored.
.It I
Ignored. A file specified in the removal list was not removed. This usually
indicates that the file was a directory and the path in the removal list lacked
a trailing
.Pa /
character.
.El
.Sh SUPPORTED PATHS
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It /path/to/file-or-directory
You can install archive files or directories by specifying a relative or 
absolute path. If the path is a directory, all files below it will be 
installed as a single root. If the path points to a file, it must be one of
the suported archive file types as described in the usage statement. 
.It user@host:/path/to/file-or-directory
You can install files or directories from another host via rsync/ssh. 
The files/directories will be downloaded to your machine and then installed 
like any other root.
.It http[s]://host/path/to/file
You can install files from an archive hosted on an HTTP/HTTPS server. The
archive file will be downloaded using curl to your machine and then
installed like any other archive file. You can not point darwinup at a
directory hosted via HTTP or HTTPS, only archive files such as tarballs.  
.El
.Sh ARCHIVE SPECIFICATIONS
When running a subcommand which takes an 
.Ar archive
argument, you can use one or more of the following items to specify which
archive to operate on. You can mix and match any of them as needed. 
You can use the list subcommand with these specifications to see what will 
match.
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Ar serial
You can specify an archive with its serial number, which can be found using
the list subcommand.
.It Ar uuid
You can specify an archive with its UUID, which can be found using the
list subcommand.
.It Ar name
You can specify an archive with its name, which can be found using the
list subcommand.
.It newest
The newest keyword will match the one archive which was most recently
installed. This should always be the first archive listed.
.It oldest
The oldest keyword will match the one archive which was installed the
longest time ago. This should always be the last archive listed. 
.It superseded
The superseded keyword will match zero or more archives. An archive is
superseded if every file it contains is contained in an archive that was
(and still is) installed after it. A file in an archive can also be superseded
by external changes, such as operating system updates. When uninstalling a
superseded archive, you should never see any status symbols, since being
superseded means there is a newer file on disk. 
.It all
The all keyword will match all archives. If you specify extra verbosity 
with -vv, then rollback archives will also be matched by the all keyword. This
means that 
.Nm darwinup -vv uninstall all
will attempt to uninstall rollback archives, which will print a message
about not being able to uninstall rollback archives. This is normal and
not a problem. 
.El
.Sh FORCING OPERATIONS
There are 2 cases where darwinup will require you to pass the force (-f)
option before proceeding with an operation.
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Object Type Change
If you install an archive which contains a file with the same path as a 
directory on your system, or vice versa, darwinup will give you a error
about not doing that unless you really want to force it. If you do force
the operation, darwinup will delete the existing object and replace it with
the object from the root. This can happen when a directory full of files
gets packaged up in some opaque file, like xibs/nibs. If you expect this
"type change", then it is probably safe to force the operation. 
.It Uninstall a root from an older base system
Darwinup remembers the version (build) of the operating system when a root
is installed. The reason for this is darwinup saves the old (replaced)
files during the installation procedure. Those backups may have come from
the older operating system, and thus are not necessarily compatible with
the current build of the operating system. So if you try to uninstall an
archive that had been installed on a different version of the operating
system, darwinup will stop and provide a message asking you to force the
operation if you really want to. If the files you are uninstalling are all
superseded, then you should not get this error as the backup copies will
not be used anyway. 
.El
.Sh HELPFUL AUTOMATION
Darwinup tries to detect common situations and run external tools that you
would otherwise have to remember to run yourself. The "dry run" (-n) and 
"disable automation" (-d) options prevent any of the following from 
happening.
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Dyld Cache
If a root modifies any file, then darwinup will run 
update_dyld_shared_cache unless the -d option is specified.
.It Kernel Extensions
If a root modifies a file under /System/Library/Extensions, then darwinup
will update the mtime of /System/Library/Extensions to ensure that the 
kext cache is updated during the next boot. 
.El
.Sh REMOVING FILES
.Nm
supports removing files from disk as part of installing a root. These files must
be enumerated in a list that is included in the root at the path
.Pa /.DarwinMetadata/removals .
The list is a simple text file consisting of paths to remove, separated by new
lines. Directories may be present in this list. If a directory is to be removed,
its path must include a trailing '/' character, and all of its descendants will
be removed. When files are removed as part of root installation, they will be
restored when the root is uninstalled with the
.Ar uninstall
command.
.Pp
It is permissible for the root to contain files that are specified in its
removal list. This is primarily useful for replacing entire directory
hierarchies as singular entities.
.Pp
.Em IMPORTANT :
Replacing a directory hierarchy can only be done safely is the root creator has
full knowledge of the contents of a given directory hierarchy and knows how to
completely populate it such that all dependencies will be satisfied. For
example, a project which installs content into
.Pa /usr/include
should
.Em not
specify that path in its removal list since many other projects populate that
directory. The result of the removal operation in such a case would be the only
the contents of the root would exist in
.Pa /usr/include
after the installation completes.
.Nm
cannot and does not protect against this scenario, so exercise extreme caution
when constructing roots with removal lists.
.Pp
.Em NOTE :
Neither the
.Pa .DarwinMetadata
directory nor its contents will be installed into the destination path.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Install files from a tarball
$ darwinup install library-1.2.3.tar.gz
.It Install several directories from /tmp/
$ darwinup install /tmp/*/*~dst/
.It Uninstall everything
$ darwinup uninstall all
.It See what archives have been superseded and then uninstall them
$ darwinup list superseded
$ darwinup uninstall superseded
.It Uninstall several archives by serial, the oldest one, and one named myroot
$ darwinup uninstall 9 16 myroot oldest
.It Install a root from src.macosforge.org
$ darwinup install http://src.macosforge.org/Roots/10D573/zlib.root.tar.gz
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr rsync 1 ,
.Xr curl 1 ,
.Xr tar 1 ,
.Xr gzip 1 ,
.Xr ditto 1 ,
.Xr update_dyld_shared_cache 1