.\"
.\"	filename: layerutil.1
.\"	created : Thu Feb 26 10:50:36 2015
.\"
.\"
.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.Dd Jul 21, 2016              \" DATE
.Dt layerutil 1      \" Program name and manual section number
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm layerutil
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line. 
.\" Use .Nm macro to designate other names for the documented program.
.Nm create compiled layered image stack
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Op Fl Vlhog         \" [-Vlho]
.Ar inputfile            \" Underlined argument - use .Ar anywhere to underline
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
Creates a compiled layered image stack (lcr) file from a layered input
file source, such as an lsr or suitably structured Photoshop (psd)
file. If gpu compression is not specified then lossy compression is used.
.Pp
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are available:
.Bl -tag -width XXrXXXrecursiveX
.It Fl c \" -c
Convert to lcr format.
.It Fl g Ar s, Fl Fl gpu-compression=s
Sets program to use gpu optimized compression. You can choose either
best or smallest. GPU Compression is only supported on iOS
10.0/AppleTV 10.0 or greater.
.It Fl l Ar n , Fl Fl lossy-compression=n
Set the lossy compression factor used for image content to a value
between 0 and 1.0, default is 0.75. The smaller the value, the smaller
the compressed file size. A value of 1.0 creates a lossless image.
.It Fl o , Fl Fl output
Output file name. If no output file is given then the basename of the
input file is used as the output file name with an appended .lcr extension.
.It Fl h , Fl Fl help
Prints out usage information.
.It Fl V , Fl Fl version
Prints out version information.
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Pp
