.Dd May 10, 2016               \" DATE
.Dt log 1      \" Program name and manual section number
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm log
.Nd Access system wide log messages created by os_log, os_trace and other logging systems.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Ar command Op Ar options
.Pp
.Nm
.Cm help Op Ar command
.Pp
.Nm
.Cm collect
.Op Fl -output Ar path
.Op Fl -start Ar date/time
.Op Fl -size Ar num Op k|m
.Pp
.Nm
.Cm config
.Op Fl -reset | Fl -status
.Op Fl -mode Ar mode(s)
.Op Fl -subsystem Ar name Op Fl -category Ar name
.Op Fl -process Ar pid
.Pp
.Nm
.Cm erase
.Op Fl -all
.Op Fl -ttl
.Op Fl -faulterror
.Pp
.Nm
.Cm show Op Ar archive | file
.Op Fl -predicate Ar filter
.Op Fl -source
.Op Fl -style Ar json | syslog
.Op Fl -start Ar date/time
.Op Fl -end Ar date/time
.Op Fl -info
.Op Fl -debug
.Op Fl -last Ar time Op m|h|d
.Pp
.Nm
.Cm stream
.Op Fl -level Ar default | info | debug
.Op Fl -parent Ar pid | process
.Op Fl -process Ar pid | process
.Op Fl -predicate Ar filter
.Op Fl -source
.Op Fl -style Ar json | syslog
.Op Fl -timeout Ar time Op m|h|d
.Op Fl -type Ar activity | log | trace
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
is used to access system wide log messages created by os_log, os_trace and other logging systems. 
The logging system stores content in /var/db/diagnostics and references content in /var/db/uuidtext.
These system directories are required for operation of the logging system.
Some commands require root privileges.
.Pp
Available commands and their options:
.Bl -tag -width "set --mode mode"
.It Cm help Op Ar command
General help or help specific to command argument
.It Cm collect
Collect the system logs into a .logarchive that can be viewed later with tools such as
.Nm
or Console.
If an output path is not specified, system_logs.logarchive will be created in the current directory.
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "--archive path "
.It Fl -output Ar path
Save the archive to the specified path or file.
If the path is a directory, a file named system_logs.logarchive will be created in the specified directory.
If the path contains the extension .logarchive, a new logarchive will be created with that name at the specified path.
.It Fl -start Ar date/time
Limits the content capture to the date and time forward to now.
Date and time are specified as "YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS".
The date can be specified with or without a time. e.g., "2016-04-12" or "2016-04-12 13:30:00".
.It Fl -size Ar num Op k|m
The amount of data to be captured in kilobytes or megabytes.
This is an approximation, as the actual size may be more than requested.
Example:  "--size 100k" or "--size 20m"
.El
.It Cm config
Configure, reset or read settings for the logging system.
config commands can act system-wide or on a subsystem.
If not specified, system-wide is assumed.
If subsystem is specified, category is optional.
Requires root access.
.Bl -tag -width "--archive path "
.It Fl -reset | Fl -status
Option to show or reset the current settings for the system or a specific subsystem.
If reset or status is not specified, a change to the configuration is assumed.
For example, "log config --reset --subsystem com.mycompany.mysubsystem" will reset the subsystem to its default settings.
"log config --status" will show the current system-wide logging settings.
"log config --mode "level: default"" will set the system log level to default.
.It Fl -subsystem Ar name
Set or get mode for a specified subsystem.
.It Fl -category Ar name
Set or get mode for a specified category.
If category is supplied, subsystem is required.
.It Fl -process Ar pid
Set mode for a specified pid.
.It Fl -mode Ar mode(s)
Will enable given mode.  Modes include:
.Pp
level: {off | default | info | debug} The level is a hierarchy, e.g. debug implies debug, info, and default. Off can only be used with process.
.Pp
persist: {off | default | info | debug} The persist mode is a hierarchy, e.g. debug implies debug, info, and default.
.El
.It Cm erase
Delete selected log data from the system.
If no arguments are specified, the main log datastore and inflight log data will be deleted.
.Bl -tag -width "--archive path "
.It Fl -all
Deletes main log datastore, and inflight log data as well as time-to-live data (TTL), and the fault and error content.
.It Fl -ttl
Deletes time-to-live log content.
.It Fl -faulterror
Deletes fault and error specific log content.
.El
.Pp
.It Cm show Op archive | file
Shows contents of the system log datastore, archive or a specific tracev3 file.
If a file or archive is not specified, the system datastore will be shown.
The output contains only default level messages unless --info and/or --debug are specified.
.Bl -tag -width "--archive path "
.It Fl -predicate Ar filter
Filters messages based on the provided predicate, based on NSPredicate.
A compound predicate or multiple predicates can be provided.
See section \fB"PREDICATE-BASED FILTERING"\fR below.
.It Fl -source
Include symbol names and source line numbers for messages, if available.
.It Fl -style Ar json | syslog
Output the content as a different style.
.It Fl -start Ar date/time
Shows content starting from the provided date.
Date and time are specified as "YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS".
The date can be specified with or without a time. e.g., "2016-04-12" or "2016-04-12 13:30:00".
.It Fl -end Ar date/time
Shows content up to the provided date.
Date and time are specified as "YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS".
The date can be specified with or without a time. e.g., "2016-04-12" or "2016-04-12 13:30:00".
.It Fl -info
Shows info level messages in the output.
.It Fl -debug
Shows debug level messages in the output.
.It Fl -last Ar time Op m|h|d
Shows content that that has happened since time specified.
Time may be specified as minutes, hours or days.  
If not specified, seconds is assumed.
For example, "--last 30", "--last 3m", "--last 8h", "--last 2d"
.El
.It Cm stream
Stream activities, log data or trace messages for the system or from a given process.
By default, the command assumes system-wide streaming.
Specifying a process id with the --process option will narrow the results.
.Bl -tag -width "--archive path "
.It Fl -level Ar default | info | debug
Shows messages at specified level and below.
The level is a hierarchy. Specifying debug implies debug, info and default.
.It Fl -predicate Ar filter
Filters messages using the provided predicate based on NSPredicate.
A compound predicate or multiple predicates can be provided.
See section \fB"PREDICATE-BASED FILTERING"\fR below.
.It Fl -parent Ar pid | process
Any child process of the provided process or pid will stream messages associated with the same activity id.
.It Fl -process Ar pid | process
The process on which to operate.
This option can be passed more than once to operate on multiple processes.
.It Fl -style Ar json | syslog
Output the content as a different style.
.It Fl -source
Include symbol names and source line numbers for messages, if available.
.It Fl -timeout Ar time Op m|h|d
Timeout the stream operation after a specified time, e.g. "--timeout 5m", "--timeout 1h"
If minutes, hours, days not specified, seconds will be used.
.It Fl -type Ar activity | log | trace
Dictates the type of events to stream from a process.
By default all types are streamed unless otherwise specified.
Pass an appropriate
.Fl -type
for each requested type of event.
.El
.El
.Pp
.Sh PREDICATE-BASED FILTERING
Using predicate-based filters via the
.Fl -predicate
option allows users to focus on messages based on the provided filter criteria.
For detailed information on the use of predicate based filtering, please refer to the
.Lk https://developer.apple.com/library/mac/documentation/Cocoa/Conceptual/Predicates/Articles/pSyntax.html "Predicate Programming Guide"
.Pp
The
.Ar filter
argument defines one or more pattern clauses following NSPredicate rules.
Supported keys include:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "eventType "
.It \fBeventType\fR
Matches the type of event: \fBlogEvent\fR, \fBtraceEvent\fR, \fBactivityCreateEvent\fR, or \fBactivityTransitionEvent\fR.
.It \fBeventMessage\fR
Matches the pattern within the message text, or activity name of a log/trace entry.
.It \fBmessageType\fR
Matches the type of message for logEvent and traceEvent, which includes "default", "info", "debug", etc.
.It \fBprocessImagePath\fR
Matches the pattern within the name of the process that originated the event.
.It \fBsenderImagePath\fR
Matches the pattern within the name of the sender that originated the event.
This could be a specific library, framework, kext, or any valid mach-o binary that is executed.
.It \fBsubsystem\fR
Matches the pattern within the specified subsystem of the event.
Only works with log messages generated with
.Xr os_log 3
APIs.
.It \fBcategory\fR
Matches the pattern within the specified cateogry of the event.
Only works with log messages generated with
.Xr os_log 3
APIs.  
When category is used, the \fBsubsystem\fR filter should also be provided.
.El
.Sh PREDICATE-BASED FILTERING EXAMPLES
Filter for specific subsystem:
.nf
 \fBlog show --predicate 'subsystem == "com.example.my_subsystem"'\fR
.fi
.Pp
Filter for specific subsystem and category:
.nf
 \fBlog show --predicate '(subsystem == "com.example.my_subsystem") && (category == "desired_category")'\fR
.fi
.Pp
Filter for specific subsystem and categories:
.nf
 \fBlog show --predicate '(subsystem == "com.example.my_subsystem") && (category IN { "category1", "category2" })'\fR
.fi
.Pp
Filter for a specific subsystem and sender(s):
.nf
 \fBlog show --predicate '(subsystem == "com.example.my_subsystem") && ((senderImagePath ENDSWITH "mybinary") || (senderImagePath ENDSWITH "myframework"))'\fR
.fi
.El
.Sh PREDICATE-BASED FILTERING EXAMPLES WITH LOG LINE
.nf
.Pp
\fBlog show system_logs.logarchive --predicate 'subsystem == "com.example.subsystem" and category contains "CHECK"'\fR
.Pp
Timestamp                       Thread     Type        Activity     PID
2016-06-13 11:46:37.248693-0700 0x7c393    Default     0x0          10371  timestamp: [com.example.subsystem.CHECKTIME] Time is 06/13/2016 11:46:37
.nf
.Pp
\fBlog show --predicate 'processImagePath endswith "hidd" and senderImagePath contains[cd] "IOKit"' --info\fR
.Pp
Timestamp                       Thread     Type        Activity     PID
2016-06-10 13:54:34.593220-0700 0x250      Info        0x0          113    hidd: (IOKit) [com.apple.iohid.default] Loaded 6 HID plugins
.Pp
.fi
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
There are various environment variables that can be used to control logging, activity flow, and other things.
.Bl -tag -width "OS_ACTIVITY_PROPAGATE_MODE "
.It Ev OS_ACTIVITY_MODE <m>
Change the mode of launched processes to:
.Bl -tag -compact
.It Fa info
Enables info level messages.
Does not override logging Preferences that have info level disabled.
.It Fa debug
Enables debug level messages which includes info level messages.
Does not override logging Preferences that have info level or debug level disabled.
.El
.It Ev OS_ACTIVITY_STREAM <m>
Change the type of streaming enabled.
.Bl -tag -compact
.It Fa live
Live streaming from the process using IPC.
.El
.It Ev OS_ACTIVITY_PROPAGATE_MODE
If set, will propagate the mode settings via activities.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr os_log 3 ,
.Xr os_trace 3
