.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 2003 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" @APPLE_LICENSE_HEADER_START@
.\" 
.\" The contents of this file constitute Original Code as defined in and
.\" are subject to the Apple Public Source License Version 1.1 (the
.\" "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the
.\" License.  Please obtain a copy of the License at
.\" http://www.apple.com/publicsource and read it before using this file.
.\" 
.\" This Original Code and all software distributed under the License are
.\" distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AND APPLE HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL SUCH WARRANTIES,
.\" INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.  Please see the
.\" License for the specific language governing rights and limitations
.\" under the License.
.\"
.\" @APPLE_LICENSE_HEADER_END@
.\"
.\" ****************************************
.\" *
.\" *  mnthome [-d] [-m mntpath] [-n] [-p password] [-s]
.\" *
.\" *  Created by suinn on Wed April 9 2003.
.\" *
.\" ****************************************
.\"
.\" ****************************************
.\" *  Required macros
.\" ****************************************
.Dd August 4, 2004
.Dt mnthome 1
.Os Mac\ OS\ X
.\"
.\" ****************************************
.\" *  NAME section
.\" ****************************************
.Sh NAME
.Nm mnthome
.Nd mount an AFP (AppleShare) home directory with the correct privileges
.\"
.\" ****************************************
.\" *  SYNOPSIS section
.\" ****************************************
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl d
.Op Fl m Ar mntpath
.Op Fl n
.Op Fl b
.Op Fl p Ar password
.Op Fl i
.Op Fl x Ar mount point
.Op Fl u
.Op Fl s
.\"
.\" ****************************************
.\" *  DESCRIPTION section
.\" ****************************************
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
command unmounts the AFP (AppleShare) home directory that was automounted 
as guest, and remounts it with the correct privileges by logging into the 
AFP server using the current username and password.  This command also 
allows you to have guest access turned off on your AFP server too and 
still have AFP home directories work with "su".
.Pp
When you ssh into another computer using an account that has an AFP home 
directory or you "su <netuser>" where <netuser> is an AFP home directory 
user, then the resulting home directory will not have the correct access 
privileges.
.Pp
This is because automount is assuming NFS behavior which assumes that all 
computers share the same user/group privileges and mounts volumes using 
"no security" and lets the client enforce privileges based on the current 
user.
.Pp
AFP is different since the privileges are based on the user that logged 
into the server.  Since automount does not put up an authentication dialog
asking for an user name and password, automount mounts the fileserver using 
guest login.  Thus you end up with getting the world access privileges and 
the privileges are shown via "mapping".  You also would have to allow guest
access to the server to that sharepoint.
.Pp
Mapping makes all the files/folders appear like they are owned by the current 
user.  Even those items not really owned by the current user show up as being 
owned by the current user.  The server provides user access rights (UARights) 
which is a summary of what the access rights are regardless of the category 
(owner, group, world) from which they were obtained.  When doing "mapping", 
the AppleShare client will take these UARights and show them as the owner 
rights.  So, everything looks like it is owned by the current user and the 
owner rights are set to the UARights.  Thus if you had access to that 
file/folder before, then you still do.
.Pp
The options are:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl v
Display version number.
.It Fl d
Print debugging information.
.It Fl m
Alternative mount point is specified with the 
.Fl m
option followed by a path to an existing directory.  Normally, the volume
is mounted in /Network/Servers/ or /var/automount/Network/Servers/.
.It Fl n
Do not force the unmount of the previous mount point.
.It Fl b
Exec the user's shell after mount of home.
.It Fl p
A password may be specified with the 
.Fl p
option followed by a password.  If this option is not used, then the user
will be prompted to enter in a password.
.It Fl i
Display information about the AFP home mount point.
.It Fl u
Attempt to unmount the current home directory mount.
.It Fl x
This option must be followed by a path to an existing AFP mount point.  Display information about the mount point.
.It Fl s
Skip preflight check to see if the currently mounted home directory is 
already correctly mounted for the user.
.El                      \" Ends the list
.\"
.\" ****************************************
.\" *  EXAMPLES section
.\" ****************************************
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following example illustrates how to mount an AFP home directory:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
mnthome
.Ed
.Pp
This example shows how to print the debugging information and provide a 
password:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
mnthome -d -p foobar

.Ed
.\"
.\" ****************************************
.\" *  SEE ALSO section
.\" ****************************************
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mount 2 ,
.Xr unmount 2 ,
.Xr mount 8
.Xr mount_afp 8
.\"
.\" ****************************************
.\" *  BUGS section
.\" ****************************************
.Sh BUGS
I get the mounting url from the "home_loc" attribute and the mountpath from the 
"home" attribute (with the path from home_loc subtracted out).  If your AFP home 
directory automounts in a different location, then you need to use the -m option 
to specify an alternative mount point.
.Pp
I cant figure out how to cd out of the current home dir so I can do the unmount 
and then restore the user back into the new home dir.  If you are in the AFP home 
directory when you use mnthome, you automatically get put back into that same 
directory when mnthome leaves.  If mnthome works, then your current directory 
is a dead directory and you need to "cd ~" to get to your new home directory.
.Pp
If the server with the home directory was already mounted by another user, you
will not be able to replace it with a mount made by your user id.  The original 
mount must be first unmounted by the mounting user or root.
.\"
.\" ****************************************
.\" *  HISTORY section
.\" ****************************************
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
command first appeared Mac OS X version 10.3.
.\"
.\" ****************************************
.\" * RETURN VALUES section
.\" * (errors that mnthome could return)
.\" ****************************************
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It 0
.Nm
successfully remounted the AFP home directory. 
.It Bq Er EINVAL
Invalid arguements were passed in.
.It Bq Er EPERM
The current AFP home directory could not be unmounted by
.Nm
because the current user does not have the correct access.  The current AFP
home directory was probably mounted by another user first.  
.It Bq Er EAUTH
Incorrect password.
.El
.\"
