.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.Dd 4/12/10               \" DATE 
.Dt mpioutil 1      \" Program name and manual section number 
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm mpioutil
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line. 
.\" Use .Nm macro to designate other names for the documented program.
.Nd Tool for configuring paths to multipathed logical units.
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Ar verb              \" [-abcd]
.Ar direct-object     \" [-a path] 
.Ar arguments         \" [file]
.Pp
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm mpioutil is a utility to manage multiple paths to a SCSI Logical Unit.
.Pp
.Sh VERBS, DIRECT OBJECTS, AND SPECIFIC ARGUMENTS          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Begins a tagged list 
.Pp
.It Sy list
.br
Lists all multipathed logical units.
.Pp
.It Sy info Ar -i <lun identifier>
.br
Get information on a multipathed logical unit.  The -i flag may also be expressed as --id.
.Pp
.It Sy modify lun Ar -i <lun identifier> -a <load balancing algorithm> -b <round robin batch count>
.br
Modify a logical unit.
The -i, -a, -b flags may also be expressed as --id, --algorithm, and --batchCount respectively.
.Pp
.Pp
.It Sy modify path Ar -l <lun identifier> -i <path identifier> -e | -d
.br
Modify a path on a logical unit.
The -l, -i, -e, and -d flags may also be expressed as --lun, --id, --enable, and --disable respectively.
.Pp
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Pp
.Sh EXAMPLES          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Begins a tagged list 
.Pp
.It Sy mpioutil list
.br
Lists all multipathed logical units.
.Pp
.It Sy mpioutil info --id 22F2000155A508ED
.br
Get information for a multipathed lun with id 22F2000155A508ED.
.Pp
.It Sy mpioutil modify lun Ar --id 22F2000155A508ED --algorithm RoundRobin --batchCount 16
.br
Modify a multipathed lun's algorithm to be RoundRobin with a batch count of 16.
.Pp
.It Sy mpioutil modify lun Ar --id 22F2000155A508ED --algorithm LeastIO
.br
Modify a multipathed lun's algorithm to be LeastIO.
.Pp
.It Sy mpioutil modify path Ar --lun 22F2000155A508ED --id 26010001553560BF00000001 --disable
.br
Disable a path that belongs to a multipathed logical unit.
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Pp
.\"
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT      \" May not be needed
.\" .Bl -tag -width "ENV_VAR_1" -indent \" ENV_VAR_1 is width of the string ENV_VAR_1
.\" .It Ev ENV_VAR_1
.\" Description of ENV_VAR_1
.\" .It Ev ENV_VAR_2
.\" Description of ENV_VAR_2
.\" .El                      
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS       \" May not be needed
.\" .Bl -diag
.\" .It Diagnostic Tag
.\" Diagnostic informtion here.
.\" .It Diagnostic Tag
.\" Diagnostic informtion here.
.\" .El
.\" .Sh BUGS              \" Document known, unremedied bugs 
.\" .Sh HISTORY           \" Document history if command behaves in a unique manner