.Dd 4/5/10
.Dt nettop 1
.Os Darwin
.\"---------
.Sh NAME
.\"---------
.Nm nettop
.Nd Display updated information about the network
.\"---------
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.\"---------
.Nm
.Op Fl ncd
.Op Fl m Ar <mode>
.Op Fl t Ar <type>
.Op Fl s Ar <seconds>
.Op Fl p Ar <process-name|pid>
.Op Fl n
.Op Fl l Ar <samples>
.Op Fl L Ar <samples>
.Op Fl P
.\"---------
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.\"---------
The
.Nm
program displays a list of sockets or routes. The counts for network
structures are updated periodically. While the program is running the following
keys may be used:
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Cm q
Quit
.It Cm Up Arrow
Scroll up
.It Cm Down Arrow
Scroll down
.It Cm Right Arrow
Scroll Right
.It Cm Left Arrow
Scroll Left
.It Cm d
Toggle delta output
.It Cm r
Redraw screen
.It Cm p
Toggle human readable numbers
.It Cm e
Expand all
.It Cm c
Collapse all
.It Cm h
Bring up the help menu
.It Cm j
Bring up the column selection menu.
In this mode you can enable/disable columns and change their order.
.It Cm l
Change to logging mode, redisplay the current data, and quit.
.El
.\"---------
.Sh OPTIONS
.\"---------
A list of flags and their descriptions:
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Fl m Ar <mode>
Specify the mode. By default, nettop will monitor TCP and UDP sockets. The
following modes are supported:
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Cm tcp
Only TCP sockets will be monitored
.It Cm udp
Only UDP sockets will be monitored
.It Cm route
Instead of sockets, the routing table will be monitored
.El
.It Fl t Ar <type>
Specify the type of interface. By default, all interfaces will be monitored.
Multiple interface types may be specified.  The
following types are supported:
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Cm wifi
WiFi interfaces
.It Cm wired
Wired interfaces
.It Cm loopback
Loopback interfaces
.It Cm awdl
Apple Wireless Direct Link  interfaces
.It Cm expensive
Interfaces marked as "expensive", for example via hotspot
.It Cm undefined
Cases where the underlying socket is not associated with an interface
.It Cm external
The combination of all defined non-loopback interfaces.
.El
.It Fl n
Disable address to name resolution
.It Fl c
Less intensive use of the CPU - draws less often
.It Fl d
Delta mode
.It Fl P
Display per-process summary only, skipping details of open connections.  This is equivalent to selecting "Collapse All" in the interactive menu.
.It Fl s Ar <delay>
Set the delay between updates to <delay> seconds.  The default delay between updates is 1 second.
.It Fl l Ar <samples>
Use  logging  mode  and  display  <samples> samples, even if standard output is a terminal.  0 is treated as infinity.  Rather than redisplaying, output is periodically printed in raw form.
.It Fl L Ar <samples>
Use  logging  mode  and  display  <samples> samples, even if standard output is a terminal.  Output will be in comma-separated values (CSV) form.  0 is treated as infinity.  Rather than redisplaying, output is periodically printed in raw form.
.It Fl p Ar <process-name|pid>
Select a process for display.  A numeric argument identifies a process by its pid.
Alternatively a process name may be given, in which case all processes with that name will be displayed.
The name must be an exact match for the name displayed by nettop, which may require that the name be truncated, for example launchd.develop instead of launchd.development.
.It Fl j Ar <column name list>
Specifiy a list of column headings to be included in the display. List items are separated by commas.  For example, -j uuid,rtt_var
.It Fl k Ar <column name list>
Specifiy a list of column headings to be excluded from the display. List items are separated by commas.  For example, -k rcvsize,rtt_avg
.El
.\"---------
.\" .Sh BUGS              \" Document known, unremedied bugs 
.\"---------
.\"---------
.\" .Sh HISTORY           \" Document history if command behaves in a unique manner
.\"---------
