.Dd September 15, 2010 
.Dt productbuild 1 
.Os Mac OS X
.\"																				NAME 
.Sh NAME
.Nm productbuild
.Nd Build a product archive for the OS X Installer or the Mac App Store
.\"																				SYNOPSIS
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op --product Ar requirements-plist
.Brq Cm --component Ar component-path Op Ar install-path
.Ar product-output-path
.Nm
.Brq Cm --content Ar content-path
.Ar product-output-path
.Nm
.Op --product Ar requirements-plist
.Brq Cm --root Ar root-path Ar install-path
.Ar product-output-path
.Nm
.Op options
.Cm --distribution Ar dist-path
.Op Cm --package-path Ar search-path
.Ar product-output-path
.Nm
.Cm --synthesize
.Op --product Ar requirements-plist
.Brq Cm --package Ar pkg-path
.Ar distribution-output-path
.\"																				DESCRIPTION
.Sh DESCRIPTION
A product archive is a flat file with a
.Pa .pkg
extension.
.Nm
creates a deployable product archive, which can be used with the OS X Installer,
or submitted to the Mac App Store. It has 5 different modes, as shown in the 
.Sx SYNOPSIS
above:
.Bl -enum
.\"                                                                             Mode 1
.It
.Em Create a product archive from a bundle (e.g. for the Mac App Store).
If you have a self-contained bundle (e.g. an app) that always gets installed to the
same location (e.g.
.Pa /Applications ) ,
specify the bundle and install path using the
.Cm --component
option. You can specify additional requirements using a
.Sx PRE-INSTALL REQUIREMENTS PROPERTY LIST .
When you specify a bundle,
.Nm
automatically creates a component package, much like
.Xr pkgbuild 1 ,
and synthesizes a distribution file.
.\"                                                                             Mode 2
.It
.Em Create a product archive for in-app content.
Specify in-app content using the
.Cm --content
option.
.\"                                                                             Mode 3
.It
.Em Create a product archive from a destination root.
When you use
.Xr xcodebuild 1
with the
.Em install
action, the result is a destination root, either under
.Pa /tmp ,
or in whatever location you specify with the Xcode
.Ev DSTROOT
setting. Use the
.Nm
.Cm --root
option to specify that destination root directory and its install path.
You can specify additional requirements using a
.Sx PRE-INSTALL REQUIREMENTS PROPERTY LIST .
When you specify a root,
.Nm
automatically creates a component package, much like
.Xr pkgbuild 1 ,
and synthesizes a distribution file.
.\"                                                                             Mode 4
.It
.Em Create a product archive using a distribution file.
If you have a distribution file, use the
.Cm --distribution
option to specify the path to it, and the
.Cm --package-path
option to specify the directory where the component packages are found (if they
are not in the current working directory). All packages referenced by the
distribution will be incorporated into the resulting product archive.
.\"                                                                             Mode 5
.It
.Em Synthesize a distribution for one or more component packages.
This also synthesizes a distribution (also using an optional
.Sx PRE-INSTALL REQUIREMENTS PROPERTY LIST ) ,
but writes out the resulting distribution instead of incorporating it into a product archive.
This can serve as a starting point if a more sophisticated distribution is required.
.El
.Pp
.Em When creating product archives for submission to the Mac App Store,
use only the 
.Cm --component
mode of
.Nm .
The other modes will create product archives that are compatible with the OS X Installer, but
are not necessarily acceptable for the Mac App Store.
.\"																				OPTIONS 
.Sh ARGUMENTS AND OPTIONS
.Bl -tag
.\"                                                                             --distribution
.It Cm --distribution Ar dist-path
Use the distribution file at
.Ar dist-path
to define the presentation, choices and packages to be installed by the
product. Each of the package names referenced in the given distribution file
must be found in a path specified with the
.Cm --package-path
flag.
.Pp
If 
.Cm --distribution
is omitted, a distribution will be synthesized to install all of the bundles given by
.Cm --component
flags, or all of the packages given by
.Cm --package
flags.
.\"                                                                             --package-path
.It Cm --package-path Ar search-path
.Nm
will search in 
.Ar search-path
for component packages named in the distribution. You can use multiple
.Cm --package-path
flags if necessary. The current working directory is searched automatically.
.\"                                                                             --resources
.It Cm --resources Ar rsrc-dir
.Nm
will copy the resources from 
.Ar rsrc-dir
into the resulting product archive.
.Ar rsrc-dir
can contain unlocalized resources (such as image files) and/or standard lproj directories (e.g. 
.Pa English.lproj )
containing localized resources (such as strings files).
.\"                                                                             --ui
.It Cm --ui Ar interface-type
If the distribution has multiple choices-outline elements, you can use
.Cm --ui
to select one for building the product archive: this controls which package
references are used. The
.Ar interface-type
should match the value of the
.Dq ui
attribute on the desired choices-outline. The default is to use the choices-outline with no ui attribute.
.Pp
If used without
.Cm --distribution ,
the given
.Ar interface-type
will be used for the choices-outline of the synthesized distribution.
.\"                                                                             --identifier
.It Cm --identifier Ar product-identifier
The given unique (non-localized)
.Ar product-identifier
will be associated with the product.
.\"                                                                             --version
.It Cm --version Ar product-version
The given
.Ar product-version
string will be associated with the product.
.\"                                                                             --component
.It Cm --component Ar component-path Op Ar install-path
The bundle at
.Ar component-path
is added to the product archive (as its own component package) and to the synthesized distribution. If
.Ar install-path
is specified, it is used as the default install location for the bundle. (If you omit
.Ar install-path,
a location is inferred from the given
.Ar component-path . )
.Pp
Valid only if
.Cm --distribution
is not specified.
.\"                                                                             --component-compression
.It Cm --component-compression Ar compression-mode
Allows control of compression used for storing any components added via the
.Cm --component
option. This option does not affect the compression used for plugins or scripts. Three
.Ar compression-mode
arguments are supported:
.El
.Bl -bullet -offset indent-two
.It
.Sy legacy
forces a 10.5-compatible compression algorithm for all components.
.It
.Sy auto
enables
.Nm
to automatically select newer, more efficient compression algorithms based on properties of the component,
such as supported operating system versions. (See
.Sy os
in the
.Sx PRE-INSTALL REQUIREMENTS PROPERTY LIST
section for more details on specifying operating system requirements.)
.It
.Sy default
provides identical behavior to omitting
.Cm --component-compression
entirely. It is currently equivalent to
.Sy legacy
but may change in future releases of OS X.
.Bl -tag
.El
.Pp
Note that the Mac App Store may override the specified
.Ar compression-mode
for submitted product archives.
.Pp
Valid with
.Cm --component
only. To control compression of component packages with
.Cm --distribution
or
.Cm --root
use
.Xr pkgbuild 1
and reference each component package in a distribution file.
.El
.Bl -tag
.\"                                                                             --content
.It Cm --content Ar content-path
The contents of the directory at
.Ar content-path
are added to the product archive (as its own component package) and to the synthesized distribution.
.Pp
Valid only if
.Cm --distribution
is not specified.
.\"                                                                             --root
.It Cm --root Ar root-path Ar install-path
The entire directory tree at
.Ar root-path
is added to the product archive (as its own component package) and to the synthesized distribution.
This is typically used for a destination root created by
.Xr xcodebuild 1 .
.Pp
Valid only if
.Cm --distribution
is not specified.
.\"                                                                             --package
.It Cm --package Ar pkg-path Op Ar install-path
The component package at
.Ar pkg-path
is added to the product archive and to the synthesized distribution. If
.Ar install-path
is specified, it is used as the default install location for the package, overriding any default
location specified by the component package itself.
.Pp
Valid only if
.Cm --distribution
is not specified.
.\"                                                                             --synthesize
.It Cm --synthesize
Write the synthesized distribution directly instead of incorporating it into a product archive.
.\"                                                                             --product
.It Cm --product Ar requirements-plist
When synthesizing a distribution, use the requirements from
.Ar requirements-plist .
See 
.Sx PRE-INSTALL REQUIREMENTS PROPERTY LIST 
(this was formerly called the 
.Qq product definition property list ) .
.\"                                                                             --scripts
.It Cm --scripts Ar scripts-path
The contents of
.Ar scripts-path
is added to the product archive for use by system.run() commands in the distribution.
This is valid only for product archives targeted to the OS X Installer application.
.\"                                                                             --plugins
.It Cm --plugins Ar plugins-path
The contents of
.Ar plugins-path
is added to the product archive for use by the OS X Installer application's plugin mechanism.
It will normally contain a
.Pa InstallerSections.plist
file, and one or more plugin bundles.
.\"                                                                             --sign
.It Cm --sign Ar identity-name
Adds a digital signature to the resulting package. See
.Sx SIGNED PRODUCT ARCHIVES
.\"                                                                             --keychain
.It Cm --keychain Ar keychain-path
Specify a specific keychain to search for the signing identity. See
.Sx SIGNED PRODUCT ARCHIVES
.\"                                                                             --cert
.It Cm --cert Ar certificate-name
Specify an intermediate certificate to be embedded in the package. See
.Sx SIGNED PRODUCT ARCHIVES
.\"                                                                             --quiet
.It Cm --timestamp
Include a trusted timestamp with the signature. See
.Sx SIGNED PRODUCT ARCHIVES
.It Cm --timestamp=none
Disable trusted timestamp, regardless of identity. See
.Sx SIGNED PRODUCT ARCHIVES
.It Cm --quiet
Inhibits status messages on stdout. Any error messages are still sent to stderr.
.\"                                                                             product-output-path
.It Ar product-output-path
The path to which the product archive will be written.
.\"                                                                             distribution-output-path
.It Ar distribution-output-path
When
.Cm --synthesize
is used, the path to which the synthesized distribution will be written.
.El
.\"																				PRE-INSTALL REQUIREMENTS PROPERTY LIST 
.Sh PRE-INSTALL REQUIREMENTS PROPERTY LIST
When you use
.Nm
to synthesize a distribution (e.g. with the
.Cm --component
option), you can specify pre-install requirements in a separate property list file, specified with the
.Cm --product
option. (When you use Xcode to create a package for the Mac App Store, you can specify this file using the
.Qq Pre-install Requirements Property List
build setting.)
.Pp
At the top level, this property list is a dictionary, with the following keys:
.Bl -column ".Sy single-graphics-device" A012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789
.It Sy Key Ta Sy Description
.It Sy os Ta "Minimum allowable OS versions (array of strings)"
.It Sy arch Ta "Supported architectures (array of strings)"
.It Sy ram Ta "Minimum required RAM in gigabytes (real)"
.It Sy bundle Ta "Specific bundles that must exist on the system (array of dictionaries)"
.It Sy all-bundles Ta "Are all of the bundles specified required? (Boolean)" 
.It Sy gl-renderer Ta "Required OpenGL capabilities (string)"
.It Sy cl-device Ta "Required OpenCL capabilities (string)"
.It Sy single-graphics-device Ta "Must OpenGL and OpenCL requirements be met by a single device? (Boolean)"
.It Sy sysctl-requirements Ta "Additional required hardware properties (string)"
.It Sy home Ta "Should installation be allowed in user home directory? (Boolean)"
.El
.Pp
.Bl -bullet
.It
The
.Sy os
key defines one or more minimum system versions. You might have multiple versions if a certain
OS update is required for a given major OS version. For example, if you specify 10.5.4 and 10.6.2,
Leopard would be allowed from 10.5.4 up, and Snow Leopard from 10.6.2 up, but 10.6 and 10.6.1 would
be rejected. There is no upper-bound associated with the highest value given.
.Pp
.Em NOTE:
Some of the other requirements imply their own minimum system versions, which may override the values
set here. This is noted below where applicable.
.It
The
.Sy arch
key specifies the supported architectures, e.g. i386 and/or x86_64. Note that i386 allows both
32- and 64-bit systems, but if you specify only x86_64, a 64-bit system is required.
.It
The
.Sy ram
key specifies the minimum amount of RAM required, in gigabytes.
.It
The
.Sy gl-renderer
key specifies a predicate, against which each of the OpenGL hardware renderers will be checked. For the
product to be installed, at least one of the renderers must match the requirements of the predicate.
The given predicate string must be convertible to an NSPredicate, and can use the following key paths:
.Bl -column ".Sy limits.param<value>" A012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789
.It Sy "Key Path" Ta Sy Description
.It Sy version Ta "The supported OpenGL version as a double (e.g. major.minor)."
.It Sy extensions Ta "An array of OpenGL extension strings supported."
.It Sy limits.<gl-parameter> Ta "The integer value of the named GL parameter (see below)."
.It Sy limits.param<value> Ta "The integer value of the GL parameter named by enum <value> (see below)."
.El
.Pp
Note that arbitrary GL parameters can be checked via the
.Sy limits
key, using the same symbolic name #defined by the GL headers. For example:
.Bd -literal
   ( version >= 2.0
     OR ( ( 'GL_ARB_texture_float' IN extensions OR 'GL_ATI_texture_float' IN extensions )
          AND 'GL_ARB_vertex_blend' IN extensions ) )
   AND ( limits.GL_MAX_TEXTURE_SIZE >= 1024 AND limits.GL_MAX_TEXTURE_STACK_DEPTH > 8 )
.Ed
.Pp
Note that recently-introduced GL parameters may not be recognized by their symbolic names, in which case
you can use the alternate form of
.Sy param<value> ,
where <value> is the enum (integer) value of the parameter. For example:
.Bd -literal
   limits.param0x0D33 >= 1024
.Ed
.Pp
.Em NOTE:
The
.Sy gl-renderer
requirement is ignored on versions of Mac OS X before 10.6.8. For this reason, specifying
.Sy gl-renderer
will cause the minimum system version to be raised to 10.6.8. This may override the values set via the
.Sy os
key.
.It
The
.Sy cl-device
key specifies a predicate, against which each of the OpenCL GPU devices will be checked. For the
product to be installed, at least one of the devices must match the requirements of the predicate.
The given predicate string must be convertible to an NSPredicate, and can use the following key paths:
.Bl -column ".Sy limits.param<value>" A012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789
.It Sy "Key Path" Ta Sy Description
.It Sy version Ta "The supported OpenCL version as a double (e.g. major.minor)."
.It Sy extensions Ta "An array of OpenCL extension strings supported."
.It Sy limits.<cl-parameter> Ta "The integer value of the named CL deviceInfo parameter."
.It Sy limits.param<value> Ta "The integer value of the CL parameter named by enum <value>."
.El
.Pp
If both 
.Sy cl-device
and
.Sy gl-renderer
are specified, both must be satisfied. By default, the requirements are considered met even if one
graphics device satisfies the OpenGL requirement and a different one satisfies the OpenCL one.
If you want to require that a single device satisfies both, add the
.Sy single-graphics-device
key with a value of true.
.Pp
.Em NOTE:
The
.Sy cl-device
requirement is ignored on versions of Mac OS X before 10.7. For this reason, specifying
.Sy cl-device
will cause the minimum system version to be raised to 10.7. This may override the values set via the
.Sy os
key.
.It
The
.Sy sysctl-requirements
key specifies a predicate, against which additional hardware requirements will be checked. The predicate
uses the
.Xr sysctl 2
facility to obtain hardware properties for the system in use. Note that only a subset of
.Xr sysctl 2
variables are available, including most of the hw.* tree and kern.ostype, kern.osrelease, kern.osrevision,
and kern.version from the kern.* tree. For example:
.Bd -literal
   hw.physicalcpu > 1
.Ed
.Pp
Or:
.Bd -literal
   ( hw.optional.aes == 1 AND hw.memsize >= 4294967296 )
.Ed
.Pp
.Em NOTE:
The
.Sy sysctl-requirements
predicate is ignored on versions of OS X before 10.10. For this reason, specifying
.Sy sysctl-requirements
will cause the minimum system version to be raised to 10.10. This may override the values set via the
.Sy os
key.
.It
The
.Sy bundle
key specifies one or more bundles that must already exist on the system (possibly at some minimum version)
for the product to be installed. For example, this might be appropriate if the product installs
a plugin, and you need to ensure that a compatible version of the host application is available.
Each object in this array is a dictionary with the following keys:
.Bl -column ".Sy CFBundleShortVersionString" A012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789
.It Sy Key Ta Sy Description
.It Sy id Ta "The CFBundleIdentifier of the bundle (required)"
.It Sy path Ta "The default path of the bundle (required)"
.It Sy CFBundleShortVersionString Ta "The minimum short version string of the bundle (optional)"
.It Sy search Ta "Search for bundle if not found at default path? (Boolean, optional)"
.El
.Pp
The given default
.Sy path
will be checked first. Only if the bundle does not exist at that path, and
.Sy search
is given as true, the bundle identifier
.Sy ( id )
will be used to find the bundle (this is appropriate for applications which the user might move).
If the bundle is found through either method, and its version is greater than or equal to the given
.Sy CFBundleShortVersionString ,
the requirement is met. (If CFBundleShortVersionString is omitted, the bundle need only exist.)
.Pp
If you specify multiple bundles, all must exist, unless you specify the
.Sy all-bundles
key with a value of false, in which case only one of the bundles must exist.
.Pp
If the bundle requirement is not met, the Installer must have a localized explanation to display
to the user. This should be provided in the
.Pa InfoPlist.strings
resource of your top-level bundle (as specified with 
.Cm --component ) ,
under the
.Em RequiredBundlesDescription
key.
.It
The
.Sy home
key, if set to true, designates that the product can be installed under the user's home directory,
as an alternative to installing on the system for all users. This should be enabled only if the
entire product can be installed in the home directory and be functional. (Home directory installation
is disabled by default.) Note that home directory installation is not supported for the Mac App Store.
.El
.\"																				SIGNED PRODUCT ARCHIVES 
.Sh SIGNED PRODUCT ARCHIVES
When creating a product archive, you can optionally add a digital signature to the archive.
You will need to have a certificate and corresponding private key -- together called an
.Dq identity
-- in one of your accessible keychains. To add a signature, specify the name of the identity using the
.Cm --sign
option. The identity's name is the same as the
.Dq Common Name
of the certificate.
.Pp
If you want to search for the identity in a specific keychain, specify the path to the
keychain file using the 
.Cm --keychain
option. Otherwise, the default keychain search path is used.
.Pp
.Nm
will embed the signing certificate in the product archive, as well as any intermediate
certificates that are found in the keychain. If you need to embed additional certificates
to form a chain of trust between the signing certificate and a trusted root certificate
on the system, use the
.Cm --cert
option to give the Common Name of the intermediate certificate. Multiple
.Cm --cert
options may be used to embed multiple intermediate certificates.
.Pp
The signature can optionally include a trusted timestamp. This is enabled by default when signing with
a Developer ID identity, but it can be enabled explicitly using the
.Cm --timestamp 
option. A timestamp server must be contacted to embed a trusted timestamp. If you aren't
connected to the Internet, you can use
.Cm --timestamp=none
to disable timestamps, even for a Developer ID identity.
.Pp
Note that component packages do
.Em not
need to be signed (e.g. with
.Xr pkgbuild 1 )
before adding them to a signed product archive. The signature on the product archive protects
the entire product, including the added packages.
.Pp
If you want to postpone signing the product archive until it has been tested and is
ready to deploy, you can use
.Xr productsign 1
when you are ready to add the signature.
.\"																				EXAMPLES 
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Li "productbuild --component build/Release/Sample.app /Applications Product.pkg"
.Pp
Build the archive Product.pkg to install Sample.app under /Applications,
synthesizing a distribution. This is typical for building a Mac App Store archive.
.It Li "productbuild --product def.plist --component build/Release/Sample.app /Applications Product.pkg"
.Pp
Build the archive Product.pkg to install Sample.app under /Applications,
synthesizing a distribution with the requirements from def.plist.
This is typical for building a Mac App Store archive with pre-install requirements.
.It Li "productbuild --distribution Product.dist --package-path /tmp/Packages Product.pkg"
.Pp
Build the archive Product.pkg using Product.dist, searching for packages
referenced by that distribution in /tmp/Packages (as well as in CWD).
.It Li "productbuild --distribution Product.dist --resources Resources Product.pkg"
.Pp
Build the archive Product.pkg using Product.dist, incorporating the resources found
under the Resources directory.
.It Li "productbuild --distribution Product.dist --sign sample-identity Product.pkg"
.Pp
Build the archive Product.pkg using Product.dist, and sign the
resulting archive using the identity sample-identity. You will be prompted to allow
.Nm
to access the keychain item, unless Always Allow was chosen previously.
.It Li "productbuild --package /tmp/a.pkg --package /tmp/b.pkg Product.pkg"
.Pp
Build the archive Product.pkg with the component packages /tmp/a.pkg and /tmp/b.pkg,
synthesizing a distribution.
.El
.\"																				SEE ALSO 
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.Xr pkgbuild 1 ,
.Xr productsign 1 ,
.Xr xcodebuild 1
