.\"Copyright (c) 2013 Apple Computer, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.Dd 6/22/12
.Dt qtmodernizer 1
.Os "Mac OS X"
.Sh NAME 
.Nm qtmodernizer

.Nd Tool to convert legacy movies to modern format with minimal changes.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op options ...
.Ar pathToSource
.Ar [pathToDestination]
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a command line tool to examine a media file which may be in a legacy format or may contain legacy media tracks. In this case a legacy format is one which cannot be read directly by CoreMedia or AVFoundation frameworks.
.Pp
.Nm 
examines all the tracks to determine if they are all in a form that can currently be played. If all tracks are playable and the format is readable, 
.Nm
does returns and does nothing. If any of the audio or video tracks are encoded with a codec that CoreMedia does not support, that track will be converted to a modern format, usually H.264 for video and AAC for audio (see --useprores for other choices).
.Pp
.It pathToSource must be a file path to a source media file or a directory. The file can be almost any modern or legacy media format. If pathToSource is a directory, then all files in the directory will be modernized.
.It [pathToDestination] must be directory path or a full file path. If pathToDirectory is not specified, the directory of the source file will be used. If the path is to a directory, the name of created file will be the same as the source with "-modernized" added to the name. The created file will be a QuickTime movie (.mov) file. If no output file is specified, a file will be created in the same directory as the source with "-modernized" appended to the title.
.Pp
Command line options of qtmodernizer:
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Fl h | \-help
.It Fl p | \-useprores
If -p or --useprores is specified,
.Nm
will use the ProRes video codec and LPCM audio codec instead of H.264 and AAC-LC. For video tracks it will produce AppleProRes422. For audio it will produce uncompressed output (lpcm). Tracks outher than audio or video are not re-encoded and will not be affected. Either AppleProRes422 may be chosen or the AppleProRes4444 option may be chosen but not both.
.It Fl p4 | \-useprores4444
If -p4 or --useprores4444 is specified,
.Nm
will use the ProRes4444 video codec and LPCM audio codec instead of H.264 and AAC-LC. For video tracks it will produce AppleProRes4444. For audio it will produce uncompressed output (lpcm). Tracks outher than audio or video are not re-encoded and will not be affected. Either AppleProRes4444 may be chosen or the AppleProRes422 option may be chosen but not both.
.It Fl r | \-replace
Normally
.Nm 
will not replace any existing files. If --replace is specified, a file already existing at the destination path will be replaced by the new output. 
.Nm
will not replace the file at original source path used in the command.
.It Fl v | \-verbose
Normally 
.Nm
only displays important error or warning messages. Specifying --verbose causes other information about the modernization to be displayed on the command line. --infoonly implies --verbose.
.It Fl i | \-infoonly
Causes
.Nm 
to display information about the tracks contained in the source file and what the modernization process would be for each track (if any) but does not actually produce an output file.
.El
.Pp
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Pp
	qtmodernizer legacy_movie.mov modern_movie.mov
.Pp
Each legacy audio and video track would be re-encoded to a modern (H.264 or AAC) track with other tracks passed through. The resulting movie is saved as modern_movie.mov
.Pp
	qtmodernizer -p legacy_movie.mov modern_movie.mov
.Pp
Legacy audio and video tracks would be re-encoded like in the above example but the resulting codecs would be ProRes for video and LPCM for audio
.Pp
	qtmodernizer ~/Movies/legacy_movie.mov
.Pp
This command will create a modernized movie in the ~/Movies directory named "legacy_movie-modernized.mov"
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
command first appeared in Mac OS X 10.9.