.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.Dd 1/22/16               \" DATE
.Dt safaridriver 1        \" Program name and manual section number
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME                  \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm safaridriver
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line.
.Nd Safari WebDriver REST API service launcher
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Fl p Ar port      \" [-p port]
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
The
.Nm
utility is used to launch an HTTP server daemon that implements the Selenium
WebDriver REST API. When launched, the
.Xr webdriverd 8
daemon allows for automated testing of
web content using the version of Safari that is installed with Mac OS X.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Fl p , Fl - Ns Ar port Aq Ar port
Specifies the port on which the HTTP server should listen for incoming
connections. If the port is already in use or otherwise unavailable,
.Nm
will exit immediately with a non-zero return code.
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Sh NOTES
For security reasons, the HTTP server accepts connections from localhost only. The
HTTP server can be used simultaneously by multiple test clients. Only one
HTTP server may run at a time; when all launchers have exited, the
server will shut down automatically.
.Pp
.Nm
is typically executed manually at the command line or automatically by a
WebDriver client library. The Selenium project provides client libraries
for most popular programming languages. More information is available on the
Selenium project website:
.Pp
.D1 Em https://www.seleniumhq.org/
.Sh STANDARDS
.Nm
and the associated
.Xr webdriverd 8
daemon implement the Selenium WebDriver JSON Wire Protocol.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.\" List links in ascending order by section, alphabetically within a section.
.\" Please do not reference files that do not exist without filing a bug report
.Xr webdriverd 8
