.Dd June 16, 2004
.Dt SCREENCAPTURE 1
.Os Mac OS
.Sh NAME
.Nm screencapture
.Nd capture images from the screen and save them to a file or the clipboard
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl SWCTMPcimswxto
.Ar file
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility is not very well documented to date.
A list of options follows.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl c
Force screen capture to go to the clipboard.
.It Fl C
Capture the cursor as well as the screen.  Only allowed in non-interactive modes.
.It Fl i
Capture screen interactively, by selection or window.
The control key will cause the screen shot to go to the clipboard.
The space key will toggle between mouse selection and window selection modes.
The escape key will cancel the interactive screen shot.
.It Fl m
Only capture the main monitor, undefined if -i is set.
.It Fl M 
Open the taken picture in a new Mail message.
.It Fl o
In window capture mode, do not capture the shadow of the window.
.It Fl P 
Open the taken picture in a Preview window.
.It Fl s
Only allow mouse selection mode.
.It Fl S
In window capture mode, capture the screen instead of the window.
.It Fl t 
.Ar <format>
Image format to create, default is png (other options include pdf, jpg, tiff and other formats).
.It Fl T 
.Ar <seconds>
Take the picture after a delay of <seconds>, default is 5.
.It Fl w
Only allow window selection mode.
.It Fl W
Start interaction in window selection mode.
.It Fl x
Do not play sounds.
.It Fl a
Do not capture attached windows.
.It Fl r
Do not add screen dpi meta data to captured file.
.It Fl b
capture Touch Bar, only works in non-interactive modes.
.It Ar files
where to save the screen capture, 1 file per screen
.El
.Sh BUGS
Better documentation is needed for this utility.
.Sh SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
To capture screen content while logged in via ssh, you must launch 
.Nm 
in the same mach bootstrap hierarchy as loginwindow:
.Pp
.Bl -item -compact
.It
PID=pid of loginwindow
.It
.Ns sudo
.Ns launchctl 
bsexec $PID
.Nm
.Op Ar options
.El
.Pp
.Sh HISTORY
A
.Nm
utility first appeared in Mac OS X v10.2.
