.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2016 Apple, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2010 Weongyo Jeong.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"
.Dd May 4, 2016
.Dt USBDUMP 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm usbdump
.Nd "dump traffic on USB host controller"
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl i Ar ifname
.Op Fl r Ar file
.Op Fl s Ar snaplen
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl w Ar file
.Op Fl f Ar filter
.Op Fl l Ar location
.Op Fl b Ar file
.Op Fl h
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility provides a way to dump USB packets on host controllers.
.Pp
The following options are accepted:
.Bl -tag -width ".Fl f Ar file"
.It Fl b Ar file
Store data part of the USB trace in binary format to the given
.Ar file .
This option also works with the -r and -f options.
.It Fl i Ar ifname
Listen on USB bus interface
.Ar ifname .
This is specified by controller type prefix and location.  The controller type prefix must
be one of: \fIUHC\fR, \fIOHC\fR, \fIEHC\fR, \fIXHC\fR.
The location is the most significant byte of the controller's \fIlocation\fR as shown in the IORegistry.
For example: the ifname of \fIEHC\fR1@\fI1d\fR000000 would be EHC29.
.It Fl r Ar file
Read the raw packets from
.Ar file .
This option also works with the -f option.
.It Fl s Ar snaplen
Snapshot
.Ar snaplen
bytes from each packet.
.It Fl v
Enable debugging messages.
When defined multiple times the verbosity level increases.
.It Fl w Ar file
Write the raw packets to
.Ar file .
This option also works with the -s and -v options.
.It Fl f Ar filter
The filter argument consists of either one or two numbers separated by a dot.
The first indicates the device address which should be traced.
The second number, which is optional, indicates the endpoint address which should be traced.
A device address or endpoint value of -1 means ignore this field.
If no filters are specified, all packets are passed through using the default -1,-1 filter.
This option can be specified multiple times.
.It Fl l Ar location
The filter argument consists of either one or two numbers separated by a dot.
The first indicates the locationID which should be traced and must be provided in hexidecimal.
The second number, which is optional, indicates the endpoint address which should be traced.
This option can be specified multiple times.
.It Fl h
This option displays a summary of the command line options.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Capture the USB raw packets on XHC1:
.Pp
.Dl "usbdump -i XHC1 -s 256 -v"
.Pp
Dump the USB raw packets of EHC1 into the file without packet
size limit:
.Pp
.Dl "usbdump -i EHC1 -s 0 -w /tmp/dump_pkts"
.Pp
Dump the USB raw packets of OHC1, but only the control endpoint traffic
of device at address 3, endpoint 0x81:
.Pp
.Dl "usbdump -i OHC1 -s 0 -f 3.129 -w /tmp/dump_pkts"
.Pp
Read and display the USB raw packets from previous file:
.Pp
.Dl "usbdump -r /tmp/dump_pkts -v"
.Sh OUTPUT FORMAT
The output format of
.Nm
is as follows:
.Pp
.Dl "<time> <controller> <device> <endpoint> <type> <speed> <state> <id> <frames> <length> <status>"
.Pp
The meaning of the output format elements is as follows:
.Bl -tag -width "<controller>"
.It <time>
A timestamp preceding all output lines.
The timestamp has the format "hh:mm:ss.frac" and is as accurate as
the kernel's clock.
.It <controller>
The USB host controller's name.
.It <device>
The address of the USB device as allocated by the host controller driver.
.It <endpoint>
The USB endpoint address that indicates whether the address is
.Dv OUT
or
.Dv IN .
.It <type>
The USB transfer type.
Can be
.Dv control ,
.Dv isoc ,
.Dv bulk
or
.Dv interrupt .
.It <speed>
The operating speed of the device.
Can be
.DV low ,
.Dv full ,
.Dv high ,
.Dv super ,
or
.Dv super+ .
.It <state>
The state of the I/O.
.Dv `submitted' indicates the I/O has been submitted.
.Dv `completed' indicates a USB transfer done.
.It <id>
The unique ID of this I/O request.
.It <frames>
Numbers of frames in this packets.
Only applicable to isoc transfers.q
.It <length>
Total amount of data that was transferred.
.It <status>
IOReturn status for the request
.El
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Based on work from Weongyo Jeong Aq Mt weongyo@FreeBSD.org
