.\" Copyright (c) 2010 Kungliga Tekniska Högskolan
.\" (Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, Sweden).
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2010 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. Neither the name of the Institute nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE INSTITUTE AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE INSTITUTE OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $Id$
.\"
.Dd Sep  1, 2010
.Dt gss 5
.Os HEIMDAL
.Sh NAME
.Nm gss
.Nd how to configure gss framework
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
GSS.frameworks have several configuration domains, all can configured with
.Xr defaults 1 .
.Pp
Configuration can be stored both in the user's configuration (
.Pa ~/Library/Preferences )
and system (
.Pa /Library/Preferences ).
.Sh CONFIGURATION OPTIONS
Use
.Xr gsstool 1
to list the supported options and their settings:
.D1 gsstool supported-mech --options
.Pp
Common options are:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It NTLM 'Force NTLMv1'
Force client to use NTLMv1
.It NTLM NTLMv1
Enable support for NTLMv1 in both client and server
.It NTLM NTLMv2
Enable support for NTLMv2 in both client and server
.It NTLM 'NTLM session key'
Require backends to support for NTLMv2 session key, Lion and earlier
dont support this.  Session keys is required for NTLM MIC that stops
reflection attacks.
.It NTLM 'AllowedHosts'
What hosts that NTLM is allowed to be used for. When there a host that
is not on the list, NTLM will not be used. File globbing is used when
matching and it's case insensitive.  When there is no configuration,
all hosts are allowed.
.Bd -literal
defaults write com.apple.GSS.NTLM AllowedHosts -array host.local '*.my.domain'
.Ed
.El
.Sh NTLM options
If you want to disable NTLM support completely in both the acceptor
(server) and initiator (client), you need disable both NTLMv1 and
NTLMv2, and set their values to boolean false or 0.
.Bd -literal
defaults write com.apple.GSS.NTLM NTLMv1 -bool false
defaults write com.apple.GSS.NTLM NTLMv2 -bool false
.Ed
.Sh APPLE MAC OS X
You can use the defaults write command to change the options, for
simple boolean options, use this:
.D1 defaults write com.apple.GSS.NTLM NTLMv1 -bool false
.Pp
You can also turn on debugging (output in syslog) using:
.D1 defaults write com.apple.GSS DebugLevel -int 10
.D1 open -a Console
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr defaults 1 ,
.Xr gss_mo 3 ,
.Xr heimdal_debug 1
