.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2006-2017 Apple Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" @APPLE_LICENSE_HEADER_START@
.\" 
.\" This file contains Original Code and/or Modifications of Original Code
.\" as defined in and that are subject to the Apple Public Source License
.\" Version 2.0 (the 'License'). You may not use this file except in
.\" compliance with the License. Please obtain a copy of the License at
.\" http://www.opensource.apple.com/apsl/ and read it before using this
.\" file.
.\" 
.\" The Original Code and all software distributed under the License are
.\" distributed on an 'AS IS' basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AND APPLE HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL SUCH WARRANTIES,
.\" INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, QUIET ENJOYMENT OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.
.\" Please see the License for the specific language governing rights and
.\" limitations under the License.
.\" 
.\" @APPLE_LICENSE_HEADER_END@
.\"
.Dd July 21, 2009
.Dt NFS.CONF 5 
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm nfs.conf
.Nd The configuration file for
.Tn NFS
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
file contains options used to specify
.Tn NFS
server and client configuration and tuning.
.Pp
Each line contains an option field and a value field, separated by
an equals character '='.  For example:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
some.nfs.option = value
.Ed
.Pp
Each line specifies a single option/value pair.
Whitespace can be used freely before and after fields.
A hash character '#' begins a comment that extends to the end of the line.
Lines containing only whitespace or comments are ignored.
The file format is intended to be easily read using functions like
.Xr fparseln 3 .
.Pp	
Values are typically integers.  For options that enable/disable
functionality the value zero (0) indicates the option is off/disabled
and the value one (1) (or any other non-zero value) indicates the
option is on/enabled.
.Pp	
The options are:
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Cm nfs.client.default_nfs4domain
Sets the default
.Tn NFSv4
domain name. If not set then string mappings are handed to
.Cm opendirectoryd
for resolution as is. Otherwise, if the domain name part of the string matches the
.Tn NFSv4
domain set here, then the domain part is stripped off and then
given to
.Cm opendirectoryd
for resolution.
See
.Xr nfs 5
for details.
.It Cm nfs.client.access_cache_timeout
How long (in seconds) that
.Xr access 2
information is cached.  The default is 60 seconds.
.It Cm nfs.client.access_for_getattr
This option specifies if
.Xr access 2
information should be opportunistically fetched every time attributes
are fetched.  A GETATTR request will only return attributes, but since
ACCESS requests usually also return current attributes, a single ACCESS
request may be used to fetch both
.Xr access 2
information and attributes.  Enabling this may improve performance,
but only if the ACCESS check on the server is inexpensive.  This may
not be the case with many modern operating systems.  The default is 0 (off).
.It Cm nfs.client.allow_async
Allow the use of the -o
.Cm async
mount option.
This option must be enabled in order for the
.Cm async
mount option to be honored because (accidental) use of the
.Cm async
mount option may result in data loss if the server crashes.
The default is 0 (off).
.It Cm nfs.client.callback_port
This option can be used to specify a port that the NFSv4 callback
RPC service should be available on.  The default value is unspecified,
which means that any available port will be used.
.It Cm nfs.client.initialdowndelay
When an NFS server is not responding, this option specifies how long
to wait (in seconds) before the initial notification is posted.  The default
is 12 seconds.
.It Cm nfs.client.iosize
This option specifies what size (in bytes) the NFS client reports for
the recommended I/O request size returned in
.Xr stat 2
and
.Xr statfs 2
calls.  The default value is 1048576 bytes.
.It Cm nfs.client.mount.options
Mount options to be used for NFS file systems mounted via
.Xr mount 8
/
.Xr mount_nfs 8 .
The value is in the same format as the argument for the
.Fl o
mount option (a comma-separated string of options like:
option1,option2=val,option3).  The default value is empty.  These
options are processed by
.Xr mount_nfs 8
prior to processing any other command-line options.  Therefore, mount
options set in the NFS configuration file may be added to or overriden
by additional command-line options.
.It Cm nfs.client.nextdowndelay
When an NFS server is not responding, this option specifies how long
to wait (in seconds) between notifications.  The default is 30 seconds.
.It Cm nfs.client.nfsiod_thread_max
The maximum number of NFS client asynchronous I/O (nfsiod) threads to
use.  The default is 16.
.It Cm nfs.client.statfs_rate_limit
The maximum number of times per second that an NFS client will send a
"statfs" RPC request to an NFS server to retrieve up-to-date file
system information.  Requests for this information that occur faster
than this rate will receive cached values.  The default value is 10
times per second.  A value of zero means no limit.
.It Cm nfs.client.is_mobile
This option specifies if an NFS client is on a mobile machine. On a mobile machine, hard mounted file systems can be automatically forcibly unmounted if the following is met:
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
The mount was automounted. 
.It
The server is not responding.
.It
No files are open for writing.
.It
No files are memory mapped.
.It
There are no dirty pages associated with the mount.
.El
The default for this option is to let the system detect this. A non-zero value for this option treats this machine as a laptop with respect to NFS behavior and allows automatic forcible unmounting of unresponsive volumes described above. Conversely, a zero value treats the machine as a desktop for traditional NFS behavior, where hard mounts never time out. Setting a zero value is useful for laptops that are being used as desktops.
.It Cm nfs.lockd.grace_period
This option specifies the grace period (in seconds) during which lockd
will only accept requests from hosts which are reclaiming locks which
existed before the restart.  The default value is 45 seconds.
.It Cm nfs.lockd.host_monitor_cache_timeout
This option tells rpc.lockd how long (in seconds) to cache state records
for monitored hosts.  Setting it to zero will disable the cache which
will make lock and unlock requests from a single client more expensive
because of additional interaction with the client's statd.  The default
value is 60 seconds.
.It Cm nfs.lockd.port
This option can be used to specify a port that the NFS LOCK service
(lockd) should be available on.  The default value is unspecified,
which means that any available port will be used.
.It Cm nfs.lockd.send_using_tcp
This option tells lockd to use TCP sockets when contacting other
hosts.  The default value is 0, which means lockd will use UDP.
.It Cm nfs.lockd.send_using_mnt_transport
This option tells lockd to use the socket type of the corresponding
nfs mount. Locking a file on a udp mount will use udp and locking
a file on a nfs mount mounted with tcp will use tcp. Note that
\fBnfs.lockd.send_using_tcp\fP will override this option. The default
value is 0, which means lockd will use UDP provided \fBnfs.lockd.send_using_tcp\fP
is not set or set to 0.
.It Cm nfs.lockd.shutdown_delay_client
This option species how long (in seconds) the lockd daemon should
remain running after the unmounting of the last NFS file system for
which it may need to perform file locking requests.  The default value
is 180 seconds.  (Note: lockd may also remain running if it is needed
by the NFS server.)
.It Cm nfs.lockd.shutdown_delay_server
This option species how long (in seconds) the lockd daemon should
remain running after the NFS server daemon,
.Xr nfsd 8 ,
is stopped.  The default value is 180 seconds.  (Note: lockd may also
remain running if it is needed by any NFS file system mounts.)
.It Cm nfs.lockd.tcp
This option specifies whether the LOCK server should support connections
using TCP.  The default value is 1 (enabled).
.It Cm nfs.lockd.udp
This option specifies whether the LOCK server should support connections
using UDP.  The default value is 1 (enabled).
.It Cm nfs.lockd.verbose
This option controls how much logging lockd performs.  It currently
maps directly to the
.Xr rpc.lockd 8
.Fl d Ar debug_level
option.  The default value is 0.
.It Cm nfs.server.async
This option specifies that the NFS server should report unstable writes
as stable writes.  The default is 0 (off).  While enabling this option
can improve write performance, it will also put data integrity at risk
because the NFS client will be told that data is on stable storage
before it actually is.  The data may be lost if the NFS server crashes.
.It Cm nfs.server.bonjour
This option controls whether the NFS service is advertised via Bonjour.
The default value is 1 (on).
.It Cm nfs.server.bonjour.local_domain_only
This option controls whether the NFS service's Bonjour advertisement is
restricted to the local domain only.
The default value is 0 (off).
.It Cm nfs.server.export_hash_size
This option specifies the size of the NFS server export hash table.  The
default value is 64.
.It Cm nfs.server.fsevents
This option controls whether the NFS server will generate fsevents for
operations performed on an exported file system.  The default value
is 1 (enabled).
.It Cm nfs.server.mount.port
This option can be used to specify a port that the MOUNT service
(mountd) should be available on.  The default value is unspecified,
which means that any available port will be used.
.It Cm nfs.server.mount.regular_files
This option controls whether MOUNT requests for non-directory objects
will be allowed.  The default value is 0 (off).
.It Cm nfs.server.mount.require_resv_port
This option controls whether MOUNT requests are required to originate
from a reserved port (port < 1024).  The default value is 1 (yes).
Many NFS server implementations require this because of the false
belief that this requirement increases security.
.It Cm nfs.server.nfsd_threads
This option controls how many NFS server (nfsd) threads are made
available to service NFS requests.  The default value is 8.
.It Cm nfs.server.port
This option can be used to specify a port that the NFS service (nfsd)
should be available on.  The default value is 2049.
.It Cm nfs.server.reqcache_size
This option specifies the size of the NFS server request cache.  The
default value is 64.
.It Cm nfs.server.request_queue_length
This option specifies the maximum number of NFS requests that the NFS
server can queue up internally on the NFS server's UDP socket.  The
default value is 128.  Note: using a large value risks getting all the
mbufs in the system placed on that queue which can cause all networking
to hang.
.It Cm nfs.server.require_resv_port
This option controls whether NFS requests are required to originate
from a reserved port (port < 1024).  The default value is 0 (no).  Many
NFS server implementations require this because of the false belief
that this requirement increases security.
.It Cm nfs.server.rquota.port
This option can be used to specify a port that the RQUOTA service
(rquotad) should be available on.  The default value is unspecified,
which means that any available port will be used.
.It Cm nfs.server.rquota.tcp
This option specifies whether the RQUOTA server should support connections
using TCP.  The default value is 1 (enabled).
.It Cm nfs.server.rquota.udp
This option specifies whether the RQUOTA server should support connections
using UDP.  The default value is 1 (enabled).
.It Cm nfs.server.tcp
This option specifies whether the NFS server should support connections
using TCP.  The default value is 1 (enabled).
.It Cm nfs.server.udp
This option specifies whether the NFS server should support connections
using UDP.  The default value is 1 (enabled).
.It Cm nfs.server.user_stats
This option controls whether the NFS server maintains active user
statistics.  The default value is 1 (enabled).
.It Cm nfs.server.verbose
This option controls how much logging nfsd performs.  The default value
is 0 - where only messages up to priority LOG_WARNING are logged.
Setting the verbose level to 1 will add LOG_NOTICE messages which
includes logging failed mount attempts.  A verbose level of 2 will
increase the log level to LOG_INFO which includes logging successful
mount attempts.  A log level of 3 or more will add LOG_DEBUG messages
and cause increasing amounts of debug information to be logged.  nfsd's
verbose level can also be adjusted temporarily using the command:
.Cm nfsd verbose .
Note: the
.Xr syslog 8
configuration may need to be adjusted in order to see the increased
verbosity.
.It Cm nfs.server.wg_delay
This option controls how long (in microseconds) NFSv2 writes will be
gathered up before being processed.  The default value is 1000.  Setting
this option to 0 will disable write gathering for NFSv2.
.It Cm nfs.server.wg_delay_v3
This option controls how long (in microseconds) NFSv3 writes will be
gathered up before being processed.  The default value is 0 (disabled).
NFSv3's support of unstable writes effectively eliminates the need for
doing write gathering to increase performance.
.It Cm nfs.statd.port
This option can be used to specify a port that the STATUS service
(statd) should be available on.  The default value is unspecified,
which means that any available port will be used.
.It Cm nfs.statd.send_using_tcp
This option tells statd to use TCP sockets when contacting other
hosts.  The default value is 0, which means statd will use UDP.
.It Cm nfs.statd.simu_crash_allowed
This option controls whether statd allows SM_SIMU_CRASH requests.  The
default value is 0 (not allowed).
.It Cm nfs.statd.tcp
This option specifies whether the STATUS server should support connections
using TCP.  The default value is 1 (enabled).
.It Cm nfs.statd.udp
This option specifies whether the STATUS server should support connections
using UDP.  The default value is 1 (enabled).
.It Cm nfs.statd.verbose
This option controls how much logging statd performs.  The default value is 0.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width "/etc/nfs.conf" -compact
.It Pa /etc/nfs.conf
The
.Tn NFS
configuration file.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr nfs 5 ,
.Xr nfsd 8 ,
.Xr rpc.lockd 8 ,
.Xr rpc.rquotad 8 ,
.Xr rpc.statd 8 ,
.Xr mount_nfs 8 ,
.Xr opendirectoryd 8
.\" .Sh BUGS              \" Document known, unremedied bugs
.\" .Sh HISTORY           \" Document history if command behaves in a unique manner
