.lf 1 stdin
.TH SLAPD-MDB 5 "2011/11/24" "OpenLDAP 2.4.28"
.\" Copyright 2011 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.SH NAME
slapd\-mdb \- Memory-Mapped DB backend to slapd
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/openldap/slapd.conf
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBmdb\fP backend to
.BR slapd (8)
uses OpenLDAP's own Memory-Mapped DB (MDB) library to store data.
It relies completely on the underlying operating system for memory
management and does no caching of its own.
.LP
The \fBmdb\fP backend is similar to the \fBhdb\fP backend in that
it uses a hierarchical database layout which
supports subtree renames. It is both more space-efficient and more
execution-efficient than the \fBbdb\fP backend, while being overall
much simpler to manage.
.SH CONFIGURATION
These
.B slapd.conf
options apply to the \fBmdb\fP backend database.
That is, they must follow a "database mdb" line and
come before any subsequent "backend" or "database" lines.
Other database options are described in the
.BR slapd.conf (5)
manual page.
.TP
.BI checkpoint \ <kbyte>\ <min>
Specify the frequency for flushing the database disk buffers.
This setting is only needed if the \fBdbnosync\fP option is used.
The checkpoint will occur if either \fI<kbyte>\fP data has been written or
\fI<min>\fP minutes have passed since the last checkpoint.
Both arguments default to zero, in which case they are ignored. When
the \fI<min>\fP argument is non-zero, an internal task will run every 
\fI<min>\fP minutes to perform the checkpoint.
Note: currently the \fI<kbyte>\fP setting is unimplemented.
.TP
.B dbnosync
Specify that on-disk database contents should not be immediately
synchronized with in memory changes.
Enabling this option may improve performance at the expense of data
security. In particular, if the operating system crashes before changes are
flushed, some number of transactions may be lost.
By default, a full data flush/sync is performed when each
transaction is committed.
.TP
.BI directory \ <directory>
Specify the directory where the MDB files containing this database and
associated indexes live.
A separate directory must be specified for each database.
The default is
.BR /var/db/openldap/openldap\-data .
.TP
\fBindex \fR{\fI<attrlist>\fR|\fBdefault\fR} [\fBpres\fR,\fBeq\fR,\fBapprox\fR,\fBsub\fR,\fI<special>\fR]
Specify the indexes to maintain for the given attribute (or
list of attributes).
Some attributes only support a subset of indexes.
If only an \fI<attr>\fP is given, the indices specified for \fBdefault\fR
are maintained.
Note that setting a default does not imply that all attributes will be
indexed. Also, for best performance, an
.B eq
index should always be configured for the
.B objectClass
attribute.

A number of special index parameters may be specified.
The index type
.B sub
can be decomposed into
.BR subinitial ,
.BR subany ,\ and
.B subfinal
indices.
The special type
.B nolang
may be specified to disallow use of this index by language subtypes.
The special type
.B nosubtypes
may be specified to disallow use of this index by named subtypes.
Note: changing \fBindex\fP settings in 
.BR slapd.conf (5)
requires rebuilding indices, see
.BR slapindex (8);
changing \fBindex\fP settings
dynamically by LDAPModifying "cn=config" automatically causes rebuilding
of the indices online in a background task.
.TP
.BI maxreaders \ <integer>
Specify the maximum number of threads that may have concurrent read access
to the database. Tools such as slapcat count as a single thread,
in addition to threads in any active slapd processes. The
default is 126.
.TP
.BI maxsize \ <bytes>
Specify the maximum size of the database in bytes. A memory map of this
size is allocated at startup time and the database will not be allowed
to grow beyond this size. The default is 10485760 bytes. This setting
may be changed upward if the configured limit needs to be increased.

Note: It is important to set this to as large a value as possible,
(relative to anticipated growth of the actual data over time) since
growing the size later may not be practical when the system is under
heavy load.
.TP
.BI mode \ <integer>
Specify the file protection mode that newly created database 
files should have.
The default is 0600.
.TP
.BI searchstack \ <depth>
Specify the depth of the stack used for search filter evaluation.
Search filters are evaluated on a stack to accommodate nested AND / OR
clauses. An individual stack is assigned to each server thread.
The depth of the stack determines how complex a filter can be
evaluated without requiring any additional memory allocation. Filters that
are nested deeper than the search stack depth will cause a separate
stack to be allocated for that particular search operation. These
allocations can have a major negative impact on server performance,
but specifying too much stack will also consume a great deal of memory.
Each search stack uses 512K bytes per level. The default stack depth
is 16, thus 8MB per thread is used.
.SH ACCESS CONTROL
The 
.B mdb
backend honors access control semantics as indicated in
.BR slapd.access (5).
.SH NOTES
This is an early release; the database file format or other
characteristics may change incompatibly in future releases.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/openldap/slapd.conf
default 
.B slapd 
configuration file
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR slapd.conf (5),
.BR slapd\-config (5),
.BR slapd (8),
.BR slapadd (8),
.BR slapcat (8),
.BR slapindex (8),
OpenLDAP MDB documentation.
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.lf 1 ./../Project
.\" Shared Project Acknowledgement Text
.B "OpenLDAP Software"
is developed and maintained by The OpenLDAP Project <http://www.openldap.org/>.
.B "OpenLDAP Software"
is derived from University of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.  
.lf 150 stdin
Written by Howard Chu.
