.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.Dd 25/10/11               \" DATE 
.Dt avbdiagnose 1      \" Program name and manual section number 
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm avbdiagnose
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line. 
.Nd This line parsed for whatis database.
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
The 
.Nm
tool is used to capture a snapshot of the current AVB system state and help diagnose 
common issues with AVB.
.Pp                      \" Inserts a space
.Nm
looks for the system to determine that it actually has AVB capable interfaces and that at 
least one of these has been enabled.
.Pp
.Nm
will produce a number of warnings which may not be errors depending on the setup of the system.
Things such as missing local or remote attributes for MSRP will be flagged as a warning but is
not an error if the Mac is not sourcing or sinking streams as appropriate for the warning.
.Pp
.Nm
will flag potential errors and warnings and suggest filing a radar report at http://bugreporter.apple.com.
Please attach the generated file at /tmp/avbdiagnose-<date>.bz2 to the bug report. An error or warning
report may be the result of a network device. Please use your best judgement before filing the bug report.
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT      \" May not be needed
.\" .Bl -tag -width "ENV_VAR_1" -indent \" ENV_VAR_1 is width of the string ENV_VAR_1
.\" .It Ev ENV_VAR_1
.\" Description of ENV_VAR_1
.\" .It Ev ENV_VAR_2
.\" Description of ENV_VAR_2
.\" .El                      
.Sh FILES                \" File used or created by the topic of the man page
.Bl -tag -width "/Users/joeuser/Library/really_long_file_name" -compact
.It Pa /tmp/avbdiagnose-<date>.bz2
output The information gathered by
.Nm
including the command line output, an ioreg dump and the current system.log and kernel.log files.
.El                      \" Ends the list
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS       \" May not be needed
.\" .Bl -diag
.\" .It Diagnostic Tag
.\" Diagnostic informtion here.
.\" .It Diagnostic Tag
.\" Diagnostic informtion here.
.\" .El
.\" .Sh SEE ALSO 
.\" List links in ascending order by section, alphabetically within a section.
.\" Please do not reference files that do not exist without filing a bug report
.\" .Xr a 1 , 
.\" .Xr b 1 ,
.\" .Xr c 1 ,
.\" .Xr a 2 ,
.\" .Xr b 2 ,
.\" .Xr a 3 ,
.\" .Xr b 3 
.\" .Sh BUGS              \" Document known, unremedied bugs 
.\" .Sh HISTORY           \" Document history if command behaves in a unique manner