.\" Copyright (c) 2013 Apple Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.Dd May 01, 2013
.Dt IMPTRACE 1
.Os "OS X"
.Sh NAME
.Nm imptrace
.Nd report importance donation events in real time
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl i Op Fl s
.Op Fl p Ar pid
.Op Fl d
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm imptrace
utility displays a trace of importance donation events. Importance donation is used by adaptive jobs on the system to manage their priority on the system. See
.Xr xpc_transaction_begin 3
and
.Xr launchd.plist 5
for more information about the mechanism and its use.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width "-p pid "
.It Fl i
Show internal kernel boosts
.It Fl s
Show stacks for internal boosts.
.It Fl p Ar pid
Limit events to the process identified by
.Ar pid .
.It Fl d
Display raw Dtrace output; do not reformat timestamps and sort output.
.El
.Pp
The traced events are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width "Recv Int Boost"
.It BOOSTED
The specified process has received a boost and transitioned out of the
background.
.It UNBOOST
The specified process has dropped its last remaining boost and transitioned
back into the background.
.It Recv Boost
The specified process has received a boost and accepted ownership of that boost
in userspace, usually by dequeuing the boosting message.
.It Drop Boost
The specified process has dropped a boost.
.It ____ Int Boost
Internal boost events are only emitted when tracking of kernel internal boosts is
activated with the 
.Fl i
option. Their use and meaning is subject to change and dependent on the
implementation details of importance donation.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
The
.Nm imptrace
script will output one line for each event, for example a typical boosting exchange might look as follows:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
0000:00:00.000000000 EVENT            PROCESS                BOOSTS NOTES
0023:15:13.844332886   BOOSTED            22:configd
0023:15:13.844372519   Recv Boost         22:configd              1 from    275:SystemUIServer 
0023:15:13.844497860   UNBOOST            22:configd                Boosted for 0 ms
0023:15:13.844509452   Drop Boost         22:configd              0
.Ed
.Pp
In this case, SystemUIServer (PID 275) has sent a message to configd (PID 22)
which caused it to be boosted. configd then dropped the boost causing it to be
become unboosted and return to background state. Boosted and unboost events may
appear before the triggering recv or drop boost.
.Sh NOTES
.Nm imptrace
is implemented using Dtrace.  For information about the probes used, see comments in the
.Nm imptrace
source.  When debugging an adaptive service, it may be helpful to combine
these probes with other Dtrace providers; however, they should be considered unstable.
