.\"Copyright (c) 2014 Apple Inc.  All Rights Reserved.

.Dd January 10, 2014
.Dt kpfile 1
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME
.Nm kpfile
.Nd convert raw kernel trace files
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl iv
.Op Fl F Ar hz
.Ar file ...
.Nm
.Fl t
.Op Fl Nv
.Op Fl F Ar hz
.Op Fl o Ar output-file
.Op Fl c Ar code-file
.Ar file
.Nm
.Fl z
.Op Fl v123
.Op Fl F Ar hz
.Op Fl o Ar output-file
.Ar file ...
.Nm
.Fl V Ar version
.Op Fl v0123
.Op Fl F Ar hz
.Op Fl o Ar output-file
.Ar file ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
program converts raw kernel trace files to a different version of the raw trace
file format. Files are converted in place unless an alternate output file is
set by
.Fl o Ar output-file .
.Pp
In
.Fl t
mode, the trace file is printed in text form.
.Pp
In
.Fl i
mode, summary information about the trace files is printed.
.Pp
The following options are available:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl c Ar code-file
Import trace codes from
.Ar code-file
in addition to the default set in
.Pa /usr/share/misc/trace.codes .
If the option is given more than once, the code files are merged.
.It Fl F Ar hz
Provide the timebase frequency. Version 1 trace files don't include the
frequency of the timebase used to generate timestamps, and
.Nm
makes an educated guess. Use this option to override the guess. It has no
effect when reading trace files with an embedded timebase frequency. See also the
.Va hw.tbfrequency
sysctl OID.
.It Fl H
Use default parameters from the local host. This will include
.Va hw.tbfrequency
and
.Va hw.model
values from the host running the
.Nm
tool when converting trace files that don't include this information. This is
appropriate when converting traces that were recorded on the same machine.
.It Fl h
Print help message.
.It Fl i
Print summary information about trace files.
.It Fl N
Do not import trace codes from
.Pa /usr/share/misc/trace.codes .
.It Fl o Ar file
Write output to
.Ar file
instead of converting files in place.
.It Fl t
Print trace file as text.
.It Fl V Ar v
Convert trace files to version
.Ar v .
Supported format versions are 1, 2, and 3.
.It Fl v
Print extra information.
.It Fl z
Compress trace files. Files are converted to the preferred format version that
supports compressed event data.
.It Fl 0
Don't compress trace files.
.It Fl 1
Use the fastest compression level.
.It Fl 2
Use the medium compression level.
.It Fl 3
Use the best compression level. This is the default.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr fs_usage 1 ,
.Xr latency 1 ,
.Xr trace 1
.\" .Sh BUGS
