.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2012 Apple Computer, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" @APPLE_LICENSE_HEADER_START@
.\" 
.\" This file contains Original Code and/or Modifications of Original Code
.\" as defined in and that are subject to the Apple Public Source License
.\" Version 2.0 (the 'License'). You may not use this file except in
.\" compliance with the License. Please obtain a copy of the License at
.\" http://www.opensource.apple.com/apsl/ and read it before using this
.\" file.
.\" 
.\" The Original Code and all software distributed under the License are
.\" distributed on an 'AS IS' basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AND APPLE HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL SUCH WARRANTIES,
.\" INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, QUIET ENJOYMENT OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.
.\" Please see the License for the specific language governing rights and
.\" limitations under the License.
.\" 
.\" @APPLE_LICENSE_HEADER_END@
.Dd December 10, 2012
.Dt NCDESTROY 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ncdestroy
.Nd Destroy kernel
.Tn NFS
credentials
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl P
.Op path Op path...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
invalidates the caller's kernel
.Tn GSS
credentials for any of the specified path's associated
.Tn NFS
mounts.  If no paths are specified then all the caller's associated credentials for all
.Tn NFS
file systems are destroyed.
.Pp
When a nfs file system is mounted using a
.Tn GSS
mechanism (currently only
.Tn Kerberos
is supported)
through the 
.Dq sec=
option or by the export specified on the server, the resulting session context is stored in a table for each mount. If the user decides to finish his or her
session or chooses to use a different
credential, then
.Nm
can be called to invalidate those credentials in the kernel. New credentials
can be obtain (typically by calling kinit) and those credentials can be used when accessing the mount. 
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl v
Be verbose and show what file system is being operated on and any resulting errors.
.It Fl P
If the trailing component resolves to a symbolic link do not resolve the link but use the current path to determine any associate
.Tn NFS
file system.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Pp
If leaving for the day:
.Bd -literal 
 $ kdestroy -A
 $ ncdestroy
.Ed
.Pp
Lets say a user does
.Bd -literal
 $ kinit user@FOO.COM
.Ed
.sp
And through the automounter access a path /Network/Serves/someserver/Sources/foo/bar
where the mount of /Network/Servers/someserver/Sources/foo was done with user@FOO.COM.
.Bd -literal
 $ cat /Network/Servers/someserver/Sources/foo/bar
 cat: /Network/Servers/someserver/Sources/foo/bar: Permission denied
.Ed
.sp
The user realizes that in order to have access on the server his
identity should be user2@BAR.COM. So:
.Bd -literal
 $ kdestroy -A
 $ kinit user2@BAR.COM
 $ ncdestroy /Network/Servers/someserver/Sources/foo
.Ed
.sp
Now the local user can access bar
.Sh NOTES
In the above example the user destroyed all credentials so the only credential to choose was new credential user2@BAR.COM. However, if accessing the server with user@FOO.COM was done by getting a cross realm TGT to obtain the service ticket nfs/some.server.fqdn@BAR.COM, then it won't be necessary to use kdestroy. The 
.Tn GSS
infrastructure will prefer to use credentials in the same realm as the service.
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
The
.Nm
command will exit with 1 if any of the supplied paths don't exist. If all paths
exist or no paths are given the exit status will be 0.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr kinit 1 ,
.Xr kdestroy 1 ,
.Xr mount_nfs 8
.Sh BUGS
There should be an option to kdestroy to destroy cached nfs contexts.

