.Dd 04/22/14               \" DATE
.Dt ostraceutil 1      \" Program name and manual section number
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm ostraceutil
.Nd is used to see application level os_trace messages.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Fl watch
.Fl (process|parent) Ar pid|process
.Op Fl errors
.Op Fl faults
.Op Fl timeout Ar seconds
.Op Fl quiet
.Nm
.Fl diagnostic
.Fl (process|parent) Ar pid|process
.Op Fl quiet
.Nm
.Fl list Ar file
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
is used to see application level os_trace messages.  Must be run with root privileges.
.Pp
Available options:
.Bl -tag -width "-parent -pid|process"
.It Fl diagnostic
Generate a diagnostic for a given process, will look for any in-flight activities, etc.
.It Fl errors
Watch for software errors triggered by processes.
.It Fl faults
Watch for software faults triggered by processes.
.It Fl list Ar file
Will list all available trace related strings for a binary.
.It Fl parent Ar pid|process
All related trace messages for parent process.
.It Fl process Ar pid|process
Only trace messages specific to the process (exclude external messages).
.It Fl quiet
Reduce the amount of duplicate information in ostraceutil output.
.It Fl timeout Ar seconds
Timeout a watch event after a specified number of seconds.
.It Fl watch
Watch for trace messages or other events for a given process or process hierarchy.
.El
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.Xr os_trace 3 ,
.Xr os_activity_initiate 3
