.TH POSTKICK 1 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
postkick
\-
kick a Postfix service
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
.fi
\fBpostkick\fR [\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR] [\fB-v\fR]
\fIclass service request\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
The \fBpostkick\fR(1) command sends \fIrequest\fR to the
specified \fIservice\fR over a local transport channel.
This command makes Postfix private IPC accessible
for use in, for example, shell scripts.

Options:
.IP "\fB-c\fR \fIconfig_dir\fR"
Read the \fBmain.cf\fR configuration file in the named directory
instead of the default configuration directory.
.IP \fB-v\fR
Enable verbose logging for debugging purposes. Multiple \fB-v\fR
options make the software increasingly verbose.
.PP
Arguments:
.IP \fIclass\fR
Name of a class of local transport channel endpoints,
either \fBpublic\fR (accessible by any local user) or
\fBprivate\fR (administrative access only).
.IP \fIservice\fR
The name of a local transport endpoint within the named class.
.IP \fIrequest\fR
A string. The list of valid requests is service-specific.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Problems and transactions are logged to the standard error
stream.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP \fBMAIL_CONFIG\fR
Directory with Postfix configuration files.
.IP \fBMAIL_VERBOSE\fR
Enable verbose logging for debugging purposes.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
The following \fBmain.cf\fR parameters are especially relevant to
this program.
The text below provides only a parameter summary. See
\fBpostconf\fR(5) for more details including examples.
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
The default location of the Postfix main.cf and master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBapplication_event_drain_time (100s)\fR"
How long the \fBpostkick\fR(1) command waits for a request to enter the
Postfix daemon process input buffer before giving up.
.IP "\fBqueue_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
The location of the Postfix top-level queue directory.
.SH "FILES"
.na
.nf
/var/spool/postfix/private, private class endpoints
/var/spool/postfix/public, public class endpoints
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
qmgr(8), queue manager trigger protocol
pickup(8), local pickup daemon
postconf(5), configuration parameters
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
The Secure Mailer license must be distributed with this software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
