.TH POSTCONF 1 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
postconf
\-
Postfix configuration utility
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
.fi
\fBManaging main.cf:\fR

\fBpostconf\fR [\fB-dfhnopvx\fR] [\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR]
[\fB-C \fIclass,...\fR] [\fIparameter ...\fR]

\fBpostconf\fR [\fB-epv\fR] [\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR]
\fIparameter\fB=\fIvalue ...\fR

\fBpostconf\fR \fB-#\fR [\fB-pv\fR] [\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR]
\fIparameter ...\fR

\fBpostconf\fR \fB-X\fR [\fB-pv\fR] [\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR]
\fIparameter ...\fR

\fBManaging master.cf service entries:\fR

\fBpostconf\fR \fB-M\fR [\fB-fovx\fR] [\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR]
[\fIservice\fR[\fB/\fItype\fR]\fI ...\fR]

\fBpostconf\fR \fB-M\fR [\fB-ev\fR] [\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR]
\fIservice\fB/\fItype\fB=\fIvalue ...\fR

\fBpostconf\fR \fB-M#\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR]
\fIservice\fB/\fItype ...\fR

\fBpostconf\fR \fB-MX\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR]
\fIservice\fB/\fItype ...\fR

\fBManaging master.cf service fields:\fR

\fBpostconf\fR \fB-F\fR [\fB-fovx\fR] [\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR]
[\fIservice\fR[\fB/\fItype\fR[\fB/\fIfield\fR]]\fI ...\fR]

\fBpostconf\fR \fB-F\fR [\fB-ev\fR] [\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR]
\fIservice\fB/\fItype\fB/\fIfield\fB=\fIvalue ...\fR

\fBManaging master.cf service parameters:\fR

\fBpostconf\fR \fB-P\fR [\fB-fovx\fR] [\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR]
[\fIservice\fR[\fB/\fItype\fR[\fB/\fIparameter\fR]]\fI ...\fR]

\fBpostconf\fR \fB-P\fR [\fB-ev\fR] [\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR]
\fIservice\fB/\fItype\fB/\fIparameter\fB=\fIvalue ...\fR

\fBpostconf\fR \fB-PX\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR]
\fIservice\fB/\fItype\fB/\fIparameter ...\fR

\fBManaging bounce message templates:\fR

\fBpostconf\fR \fB-b\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR]
[\fItemplate_file\fR]

\fBpostconf\fR \fB-t\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR]
[\fItemplate_file\fR]

\fBManaging other configuration:\fR

\fBpostconf\fR \fB-a\fR|\fB-A\fR|\fB-l\fR|\fB-m\fR [\fB-v\fR]
[\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
By default, the \fBpostconf\fR(1) command displays the
values of \fBmain.cf\fR configuration parameters, and warns
about possible mis-typed parameter names (Postfix 2.9 and later).
It can also change \fBmain.cf\fR configuration
parameter values, or display other configuration information
about the Postfix mail system.

Options:
.IP \fB-a\fR
List the available SASL server plug-in types.  The SASL
plug-in type is selected with the \fBsmtpd_sasl_type\fR
configuration parameter by specifying one of the names
listed below.
.RS
.IP \fBcyrus\fR
This server plug-in is available when Postfix is built with
Cyrus SASL support.
.IP \fBdovecot\fR
This server plug-in uses the Dovecot authentication server,
and is available when Postfix is built with any form of SASL
support.
.RE
.IP
This feature is available with Postfix 2.3 and later.
.IP \fB-A\fR
List the available SASL client plug-in types.  The SASL
plug-in type is selected with the \fBsmtp_sasl_type\fR or
\fBlmtp_sasl_type\fR configuration parameters by specifying
one of the names listed below.
.RS
.IP \fBcyrus\fR
This client plug-in is available when Postfix is built with
Cyrus SASL support.
.RE
.IP
This feature is available with Postfix 2.3 and later.
.IP "\fB-b\fR [\fItemplate_file\fR]"
Display the message text that appears at the beginning of
delivery status notification (DSN) messages, replacing
$\fBname\fR expressions with actual values as described in
\fBbounce\fR(5).

To override the built-in templates, specify a template file
name at the end of the \fBpostconf\fR(1) command line, or
specify a file name in \fBmain.cf\fR with the
\fBbounce_template_file\fR parameter.

To force selection of the built-in templates, specify an
empty template file name on the \fBpostconf\fR(1) command
line (in shell language: "").

This feature is available with Postfix 2.3 and later.
.IP "\fB-c \fIconfig_dir\fR"
The \fBmain.cf\fR configuration file is in the named directory
instead of the default configuration directory.
.IP "\fB-C \fIclass,...\fR"
When displaying \fBmain.cf\fR parameters, select only
parameters from the specified class(es):
.RS
.IP \fBbuiltin\fR
Parameters with built-in names.
.IP \fBservice\fR
Parameters with service-defined names (the first field of
a \fBmaster.cf\fR entry plus a Postfix-defined suffix).
.IP \fBuser\fR
Parameters with user-defined names.
.IP \fBall\fR
All the above classes.
.RE
.IP
The default is as if "\fB-C all\fR" is
specified.
.IP \fB-d\fR
Print \fBmain.cf\fR default parameter settings instead of
actual settings.
Specify \fB-df\fR to fold long lines for human readability
(Postfix 2.9 and later).
.IP \fB-e\fR
Edit the \fBmain.cf\fR configuration file, and update
parameter settings with the "\fIname=value\fR" pairs on the
\fBpostconf\fR(1) command line.

With \fB-M\fR, edit the \fBmaster.cf\fR configuration file,
and replace one or more service entries with new values as
specified with "\fIservice/type=value\fR" on the \fBpostconf\fR(1)
command line.

With \fB-F\fR, edit the \fBmaster.cf\fR configuration file,
and replace one or more service fields with new values as
specied with "\fIservice/type/field=value\fR" on the
\fBpostconf\fR(1) command line. Currently, the "command"
field contains the command name and command arguments.  this
may change in the near future, so that the "command" field
contains only the command name, and a new "arguments"
pseudofield contains the command arguments.

With \fB-P\fR, edit the \fBmaster.cf\fR configuration file,
and add or update one or more service parameter settings
(-o parameter=value settings) with new values as specied
with "\fIservice/type/parameter=value\fR" on the \fBpostconf\fR(1)
command line.

In all cases the file is copied to a temporary file then
renamed into place.  Specify quotes to protect special
characters and whitespace on the \fBpostconf\fR(1) command
line.

The \fB-e\fR option is no longer needed with Postfix version
2.8 and later.
.IP \fB-f\fR
Fold long lines when printing \fBmain.cf\fR or \fBmaster.cf\fR
configuration file entries, for human readability.

This feature is available with Postfix 2.9 and later.
.IP \fB-F\fR
Show \fBmaster.cf\fR per-entry field settings (by default
all services and all fields), formatted as one
"\fIservice/type/field=value\fR" per line. Specify \fB-Ff\fR
to fold long lines.

Specify one or more "\fIservice/type/field\fR" instances
on the \fBpostconf\fR(1) command line to limit the output
to fields of interest.  Trailing parameter name or service
type fields that are omitted will be handled as "*" wildcard
fields.

This feature is available with Postfix 2.11 and later.
.IP \fB-h\fR
Show parameter or attribute values without the "\fIname\fR
= " label that normally precedes the value.
.IP \fB-l\fR
List the names of all supported mailbox locking methods.
Postfix supports the following methods:
.RS
.IP \fBflock\fR
A kernel-based advisory locking method for local files only.
This locking method is available on systems with a BSD
compatible library.
.IP \fBfcntl\fR
A kernel-based advisory locking method for local and remote
files.
.IP \fBdotlock\fR
An application-level locking method. An application locks
a file named \fIfilename\fR by creating a file named
\fIfilename\fB.lock\fR.  The application is expected to
remove its own lock file, as well as stale lock files that
were left behind after abnormal program termination.
.RE
.IP \fB-m\fR
List the names of all supported lookup table types. In
Postfix configuration files, lookup tables are specified
as \fItype\fB:\fIname\fR, where \fItype\fR is one of the
types listed below. The table \fIname\fR syntax depends on
the lookup table type as described in the DATABASE_README
document.
.RS
.IP \fBbtree\fR
A sorted, balanced tree structure.  Available on systems
with support for Berkeley DB databases.
.IP \fBcdb\fR
A read-optimized structure with no support for incremental
updates.  Available on systems with support for CDB databases.
.IP \fBcidr\fR
A table that associates values with Classless Inter-Domain
Routing (CIDR) patterns. This is described in \fBcidr_table\fR(5).
.IP \fBdbm\fR
An indexed file type based on hashing.  Available on systems
with support for DBM databases.
.IP \fBenviron\fR
The UNIX process environment array. The lookup key is the
variable name. Originally implemented for testing, someone
may find this useful someday.
.IP \fBfail\fR
A table that reliably fails all requests. The lookup table
name is used for logging. This table exists to simplify
Postfix error tests.
.IP \fBhash\fR
An indexed file type based on hashing.  Available on systems
with support for Berkeley DB databases.
.IP \fBinternal\fR
A non-shared, in-memory hash table. Its content are lost
when a process terminates.
.IP "\fBlmdb\fR"
OpenLDAP LMDB database (a memory-mapped, persistent file).
Available on systems with support for LMDB databases.  This
is described in \fBlmdb_table\fR(5).
.IP "\fBldap\fR (read-only)"
LDAP database client. This is described in \fBldap_table\fR(5).
.IP "\fBmemcache\fR"
Memcache database client. This is described in
\fBmemcache_table\fR(5).
.IP "\fBmysql\fR (read-only)"
MySQL database client.  Available on systems with support
for MySQL databases.  This is described in \fBmysql_table\fR(5).
.IP "\fBpcre\fR (read-only)"
A lookup table based on Perl Compatible Regular Expressions.
The file format is described in \fBpcre_table\fR(5).
.IP "\fBpgsql\fR (read-only)"
PostgreSQL database client. This is described in
\fBpgsql_table\fR(5).
.IP "\fBproxy\fR"
Postfix \fBproxymap\fR(8) client for shared access to Postfix
databases. The table name syntax is \fItype\fB:\fIname\fR.
.IP "\fBregexp\fR (read-only)"
A lookup table based on regular expressions. The file format
is described in \fBregexp_table\fR(5).
.IP \fBsdbm\fR
An indexed file type based on hashing.  Available on systems
with support for SDBM databases.
.IP "\fBsocketmap\fR (read-only)"
Sendmail-style socketmap client. The table name is
\fBinet\fR:\fIhost\fR:\fIport\fR:\fIname\fR for a TCP/IP
server, or \fBunix\fR:\fIpathname\fR:\fIname\fR for a
UNIX-domain server. This is described in \fBsocketmap_table\fR(5).
.IP "\fBsqlite\fR (read-only)"
SQLite database. This is described in \fBsqlite_table\fR(5).
.IP "\fBstatic\fR (read-only)"
A table that always returns its name as lookup result. For
example, \fBstatic:foobar\fR always returns the string
\fBfoobar\fR as lookup result.
.IP "\fBtcp\fR (read-only)"
TCP/IP client. The protocol is described in \fBtcp_table\fR(5).
.IP "\fBtexthash\fR (read-only)"
Produces similar results as hash: files, except that you
don't need to run the \fBpostmap\fR(1) command before you
can use the file, and that it does not detect changes after
the file is read.
.IP "\fBunix\fR (read-only)"
A limited view of the UNIX authentication database. The
following tables are implemented:
.RS
. IP \fBunix:passwd.byname\fR
The table is the UNIX password database. The key is a login
name.  The result is a password file entry in \fBpasswd\fR(5)
format.
.IP \fBunix:group.byname\fR
The table is the UNIX group database. The key is a group
name.  The result is a group file entry in \fBgroup\fR(5)
format.
.RE
.RE
.IP
Other table types may exist depending on how Postfix was
built.
.IP \fB-M\fR
Show \fBmaster.cf\fR file contents instead of \fBmain.cf\fR
file contents.  Specify \fB-Mf\fR to fold long lines for
human readability.

Specify zero or more arguments, each with a \fIservice-name\fR
or \fIservice-name/service-type\fR pair, where \fIservice-name\fR
is the first field of a master.cf entry and \fIservice-type\fR
is one of (\fBinet\fR, \fBunix\fR, \fBfifo\fR, or \fBpass\fR).

If \fIservice-name\fR or \fIservice-name/service-type\fR
is specified, only the matching master.cf entries will be
output. For example, "\fBpostconf -Mf smtp\fR" will output
all services named "smtp", and "\fBpostconf -Mf smtp/inet\fR"
will output only the smtp service that listens on the
network.  Trailing service type fields that are omitted
will be handled as "*" wildcard fields.

This feature is available with Postfix 2.9 and later. The
syntax was changed from "\fIname.type\fR" to "\fIname/type\fR",
and "*" wildcard support was added with Postfix 2.11.
.IP \fB-n\fR
Show only configuration parameters that have explicit
\fIname=value\fR settings in \fBmain.cf\fR.  Specify \fB-nf\fR
to fold long lines for human readability (Postfix 2.9 and
later).
.IP "\fB-o \fIname=value\fR"
Override \fBmain.cf\fR parameter settings.

This feature is available with Postfix 2.10 and later.
.IP \fB-p\fR
Show \fBmain.cf\fR parameter settings. This is the default.
.IP \fB-P\fR
Show \fBmaster.cf\fR service parameter settings (by default
all services and all parameters).  formatted as one
"\fIservice/type/parameter=value\fR" per line.  Specify
\fB-Pf\fR to fold long lines.

Specify one or more "\fIservice/type/parameter\fR" instances
on the \fBpostconf\fR(1) command line to limit the output
to parameters of interest.  Trailing parameter name or
service type fields that are omitted will be handled as "*"
wildcard fields.

This feature is available with Postfix 2.11 and later.
.IP "\fB-t\fR [\fItemplate_file\fR]"
Display the templates for text that appears at the beginning
of delivery status notification (DSN) messages, without
expanding $\fBname\fR expressions.

To override the built-in templates, specify a template file
name at the end of the \fBpostconf\fR(1) command line, or
specify a file name in \fBmain.cf\fR with the
\fBbounce_template_file\fR parameter.

To force selection of the built-in templates, specify an
empty template file name on the \fBpostconf\fR(1) command
line (in shell language: "").

This feature is available with Postfix 2.3 and later.
.IP \fB-v\fR
Enable verbose logging for debugging purposes. Multiple
\fB-v\fR options make the software increasingly verbose.
.IP \fB-x\fR
Expand \fI$name\fR in \fBmain.cf\fR or \fBmaster.cf\fR
parameter values. The expansion is recursive.

This feature is available with Postfix 2.10 and later.
.IP \fB-X\fR
Edit the \fBmain.cf\fR configuration file, and remove the
parameters named on the \fBpostconf\fR(1) command line.
Specify a list of parameter names, not "\fIname=value\fR"
pairs.

With \fB-M\fR, edit the \fBmaster.cf\fR configuration file,
and remove one or more service entries as specified with
"\fIservice/type\fR" on the \fBpostconf\fR(1) command line.

With \fB-P\fR, edit the \fBmaster.cf\fR configuration file,
and remove one or more service parameter settings (-o
parameter=value settings) as specied with
"\fIservice/type/parameter\fR" on the \fBpostconf\fR(1)
command line.

In all cases the file is copied to a temporary file then
renamed into place.  Specify quotes to protect special
characters on the \fBpostconf\fR(1) command line.

There is no \fBpostconf\fR(1) command to perform the reverse
operation.

This feature is available with Postfix 2.10 and later.
Support for -M and -P was added with Postfix 2.11.
.IP \fB-#\fR
Edit the \fBmain.cf\fR configuration file, and comment out
the parameters named on the \fBpostconf\fR(1) command line,
so that those parameters revert to their default values.
Specify a list of parameter names, not "\fIname=value\fR"
pairs.

With \fB-M\fR, edit the \fBmaster.cf\fR configuration file,
and comment out one or more service entries as specified
with "\fIservice/type\fR" on the \fBpostconf\fR(1) command
line.

In all cases the file is copied to a temporary file then
renamed into place.  Specify quotes to protect special
characters on the \fBpostconf\fR(1) command line.

There is no \fBpostconf\fR(1) command to perform the reverse
operation.

This feature is available with Postfix 2.6 and later. Support
for -M was added with Postfix 2.11.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Problems are reported to the standard error stream.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP \fBMAIL_CONFIG\fR
Directory with Postfix configuration files.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
The following \fBmain.cf\fR parameters are especially
relevant to this program.

The text below provides only a parameter summary. See
\fBpostconf\fR(5) for more details including examples.
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
The default location of the Postfix main.cf and master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBbounce_template_file (empty)\fR"
Pathname of a configuration file with bounce message templates.
.SH "FILES"
.na
.nf
/etc/postfix/main.cf, Postfix configuration parameters
/etc/postfix/master.cf, Postfix master daemon configuration
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
bounce(5), bounce template file format master(5), master.cf
configuration file syntax postconf(5), main.cf configuration
file syntax
.SH "README FILES"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Use "\fBpostconf readme_directory\fR" or "\fBpostconf
html_directory\fR" to locate this information.
.na
.nf
DATABASE_README, Postfix lookup table overview
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
The Secure Mailer license must be distributed with this
software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema IBM T.J. Watson Research P.O. Box 704 Yorktown
Heights, NY 10598, USA
