.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 2006-2010 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" @APPLE_LICENSE_HEADER_START@
.\" 
.\" This file contains Original Code and/or Modifications of Original Code
.\" as defined in and that are subject to the Apple Public Source License
.\" Version 2.0 (the 'License'). You may not use this file except in
.\" compliance with the License. Please obtain a copy of the License at
.\" http://www.opensource.apple.com/apsl/ and read it before using this
.\" file.
.\" 
.\" The Original Code and all software distributed under the License are
.\" distributed on an 'AS IS' basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AND APPLE HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL SUCH WARRANTIES,
.\" INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, QUIET ENJOYMENT OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.
.\" Please see the License for the specific language governing rights and
.\" limitations under the License.
.\" 
.\" @APPLE_LICENSE_HEADER_END@
.\" 
.Dd August 5, 2010
.Dt SANDBOX-SIMPLIFY 1
.Os "Mac OS X"
.Sh NAME
.Nm sandbox-simplify
.Nd simplify a sandbox profile created by a trace directive
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ar file
.Ar ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
When a profile contains a trace directive such as
.Pp
\&	(trace "trace.sb")
.Pp
the sandboxed process will be allowed to perform any operation, and a rule will be appended to the trace profile allowing access to any resource that would have otherwise been denied.
.Pp
The
.Nm
command processes a profile produced by a trace directive and outputs a simplified profile suitable for human inspection.
