.\" Copyright (c) 2000, Apple Computer, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.Dd October 28, 2002
.Dt SC_USAGE 1
.Os "Mac OS X"
.Sh NAME
.Nm sc_usage
.Nd show system call usage statistics
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm sc_usage
.Op Fl c Ar codefile
.Op Fl e
.Op Fl l
.Op Fl s Ar interval
pid | cmd | 
.Fl E
execute
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm sc_usage
displays an ongoing sample of system call and page fault usage statistics for
a given process in a
.Dq Li top-like
fashion.
It requires root privileges due to the kernel tracing facility it uses to
operate.
.Pp
Page faults can be of the following types:
.Bl -tag -width CACHEHITTT -compact
.It PAGE_IN
page had to read from disk
.It ZERO_FILL
page was created and zero filled
.It COW
page was copied from another page
.It CACHE_HIT
page was found in the cache
.El
.Pp
The arguments are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl c
When the
.Fl c
option is specified, it expects a path to a 
.Ar codefile 
that
contains the mappings for the system calls.
This option overrides the default location of the system call codefile which
is found in /usr/share/misc/trace.codes.
.It Fl e
Specifying the
.Fl e
option generates output that is sorted by call count.
This overrides the default sort by time.
.It Fl l
The
.Fl l
option causes
.Nm sc_usage
to turn off its continuous window updating style of output and instead output
as a continuous scrolling of data.
.It Fl s
By default,
.Nm sc_usage
updates its output at one second intervals.
This sampling interval may be changed by specifying the
.Fl s
option.
Enter the
.Ar interval
in seconds.
.It pid | cmd | -E execute
The last argument must be a process id, a running command name, or using the
.Fl E
option, an execution path followed by optional arguments.
The system call usage data for the process or command is displayed.
If the
.Fl E
flag is used, sc_usage will launch the executable, pass along any optional
arguments and display system call usage date for that executable.
.El
.Pp
The data columns displayed are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width LAST_PATHNAME_WAITED_FOR -compact
.Pp
.It TYPE
the system call type
.It NUMBER
the system call count
.It CPU_TIME
the amount of cpu time consumed
.It WAIT_TIME
the absolute time the process is waiting
.It CURRENT_TYPE
the current system call type
.It LAST_PATHNAME_WAITED_FOR
for each active thread, the last pathname
that was referenced by a system call that blocked
.It CUR_WAIT_TIME
the cumulative time that a thread has been blocked
.It THRD#
the thread number
.It PRI
current scheduling priority
.El
.Pp
The
.Nm sc_usage
command also displays some global state in the first few lines of output,
including the number of preemptions, context switches, threads, faults and
system calls, found during the sampling period.
The current time and the elapsed time that the command has been running is also
displayed here.
The
.Nm sc_usage
command is also SIGWINCH savvy, so adjusting your window geometry may change
the list of system calls being displayed.
Typing a
.Sq Li q
will cause sc_usage to exit immediately.
Typing any other character will cause sc_usage to reset its counters and the
display.
.Sh SAMPLE USAGE
.Pp
sc_usage Finder -e -s2
.Pp
.Nm sc_usage
will sort the Finder process usage data according to system call count and
update the output at 2 second intervals.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr fs_usage 1 ,
.Xr latency 1 ,
.Xr top 1
