.Dd 01/26/11               \" DATE 
.Dt sysdiagnose 1      \" Program name and manual section number 
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm sysdiagnose
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line. 
.\" Use .Nm macro to designate other names for the documented program.
.Nd gathers system-wide diagnostic information helpful in investigating system performance issues.
.\" ============================================================================
.\" ========================== BEGIN SYNOPSIS SECTION ==========================
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Fl h
.Nm
.Op Fl f Ar results_directory
.Op Fl A Ar archive_name
.Op Fl t
.Op Fl q
.Op Fl b
.Op Fl p
.Op Fl d
.Op Ar process_name | pid
.\" =========================== END SYNOPSIS SECTION ===========================
.\" ============================================================================
.\"
.\" ============================================================================
.\" ======================== BEGIN DESCRIPTION SECTION =========================
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
tool gathers system diagnostic information helpful in investigating system performance issues. A great deal of information is harvested, spanning system state and configuration.
.Nm
needs to be run as root.
.Nm
can be triggered upon pressing a special key chord; this is currently Control-Option-Command-Shift-Period.
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" ----------------------- BEGIN DIAGNOSTICS LIST -----------------------------
.Ss What Nm Sy collects:
.Bl -bullet -offset indent -compact
.It
A spindump of the system
.It
Several seconds of fs_usage ouput 
.It
Several seconds of top output
.It
Data about kernel zones
.It
Status of loaded kernel extensions 
.It
Resident memory usage of user processes
.It
All system logs, kernel logs, opendirectory log, windowserver log, and log of power management events
.It
A System Profiler report
.It
All spin and crash reports
.It
Disk usage information
.It
I/O Kit registry information
.It
Network status
.It
If a specific process is supplied as an argument: list of malloc-allocated buffers in the process's heap is collected
.It
If a specific process is supplied as an argument: data about unreferenced malloc buffers in the process's memory is collected 
.It
If a specific process is supplied as an argument: data about the virtual memory regions allocated in the process
.It
If Mail is the process supplied as an argument: your email address, account configuration, mailbox identifiers, the number of characters in the subject line of emails, the sent and received times of emails.
.El
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" ========================== END DIAGNOSTICS LIST ============================
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" ========================== END DESCRIPTION SECTION =========================
.\" ============================================================================
.\"
.\" ============================================================================
.\" =========================== BEGIN OPTIONS SECTION ==========================
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width -indent 
.It Fl h
Print full usage.
.It Fl f Ar results_directory
Specify the directory where the results will be stored. The default results directory is /var/tmp.
.It Fl A Ar archive_name
Specify the name of the archive created in the results directory.
.It Fl q
Skips calling footprint.
.It Fl t
Enable "Thorough Mode". See below.
.It Fl b
Do not show the resulting archive in a Finder window upon completion.
.It Fl p
Request only time-sensitive data to be collected (performance issues).
.It Fl d
Request only log data to be collected (historical issues).
.It Ar process_name | pid
If a single process appears to be slowing down the system, passing in the process name or ID as the argument gathers additional process-specific diagnostic data.
.El
.\" =========================== END OPTIONS SECTION ============================
.\" ============================================================================
.Sh THOROUGH MODE
.Nm
can be run in a "Thorough Mode" in which standard data is gathered as well as a kernel trace. Enabling "Thorough Mode" for the command-line
.Nm
and key-chord 
.Nm
are independent and are performed as follows:
.Pp
For "Thorough Mode" in the command-line
.Nm
use the "-t" flag.
.Pp
To enable "Thorough Mode" for special key-chord launches of 
.Nm
execute "touch /var/tmp/.thoroughsysdiagnose"
.Pp
To disable "Thorough Mode" for special key-chord launches of 
.Nm
execute "rm /var/tmp/.thoroughsysdiagnose"
.Ss Note:
Gathering the kernel trace can increase the size of 
.Nm
output by hundreds of MB as well as increase the time for 
.Nm
to complete.
.EL
.\" ============================================================================
.\" ======================== BEGIN THOROUGH MODE SECTION =======================
.\"
.\" ========================= END THOROUGH MODE SECTION ========================
.\" ============================================================================
.\"
.\" ============================================================================
.\" ======================== BEGIN EXIT STATUS SECTION =========================
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Nm
exits with status 0 if there were no internal errors encountered during the diagnostic, or >0 when an error unrelated to external state occurs or unusable input is provided by the user.
.\" ========================= END EXIT STATUS SECTION ==========================
.\" ============================================================================
