.Dd September 23, 2011 
.Dt xip 1 
.Os Mac OS X
.\"																				NAME 
.Sh NAME
.Nm xip
.Nd Create a signed archive for secure distribution
.\"																				SYNOPSIS
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op options
.Cm --sign Ar identity
.Ar input-file ...
.Ar output-archive
.\"																				DESCRIPTION
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
tool archives one or more files or directories into a signed XIP file. A XIP file is
an analog to 
.Xr zip 1 ,
but allows for a digital signature to be applied and verified on the receiving system,
before the archive is expanded. When a XIP file is opened (by double-clicking), Archive
Utility will automatically expand it (but only if the digital signature is intact).
.Pp
To create a XIP file,
you will need to have a certificate and corresponding private key -- together called an
.Dq identity
-- in one of your accessible keychains. To add a signature, specify the name of the identity using the
.Cm --sign
option. The identity's name is the same as the
.Dq Common Name
of the certificate.
.Pp
If you want to search for the identity in a specific keychain, specify the path to the
keychain file using the 
.Cm --keychain
option. Otherwise, the default keychain search path is used.
.Pp
.Nm
will embed the signing certificate in the XIP file, as well as any intermediate
certificates that are found in the keychain. 
.Pp
The signature can optionally include a trusted timestamp. This is enabled by default when signing with
a Developer ID identity, but it can be enabled explicitly using the
.Cm --timestamp 
option. A timestamp server must be contacted to embed a trusted timestamp. If you aren't
connected to the Internet, you can use
.Cm --timestamp=none
to disable timestamps, even for a Developer ID identity.
.\"																				OPTIONS 
.Sh ARGUMENTS AND OPTIONS
.Bl -tag
.It Cm --sign Ar identity-name
The name of the identity to use for signing the archive.
.It Cm --keychain Ar keychain-path
Specify a specific keychain to search for the signing identity.
.It Cm --timestamp
Include a trusted timestamp with the signature.
.It Cm --timestamp=none
Disable trusted timestamp, regardless of identity.
.It Ar input-file ...
The path to one or more files or directories to be archived.
.It Ar output-archive
The path to which the signed archive will be written.
.El
