.TH ZPRINT 1 02/12/09
.CM 4
.SH NAME
zprint \- show information about kernel zones
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBzprint\fP [\fB-w\fP] [\fB-s\fP] [\fB-c\fP] [\fB-h\fP] [\fB-t\fP] [\fB-d\fP] [\fB-p <pid>\fP][name]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIzprint(1)\fR displays data about Mach zones.  By default,
\fIzprint\fR will print out information about all Mach zones.  If the
optional \fIname\fR is specified, \fIzprint\fR will print information
about each zone for which \fIname\fR is a substring of the zone's
name.
.PP
\fIzprint\fR interprets the following options:
.\" ==========
.TP 8
.B \-c
(Default)
\fIzprint\fR prints zone info in columns. Long zone names are truncated
with '$', and spaces are replaced with '.', to allow for sorting by column.
Pageable and collectible zones are shown with 'P' and 'C'
on the far right. Zones with preposterously large maximum
sizes are shown with '----' in the max size and max num elts fields.
.\" ==========
.TP 8
.B \-h
(Default)
Shows headings for the columns printed with the -c option.
It may be useful to override this option when sorting by column.
.\" ==========
.TP 8
.B \-s
\fIzprint\fR sorts the zones, showing the zone wasting the most memory first.
.\" ==========
.TP 8
.B \-w
For each zone, \fIzprint\fR calculates how much space is allocated but
not currently in use, the space wasted by the zone.
.TP 8
.B \-t
For each zone, \fIzprint\fR calculates the total size of allocations from
the zone over the life of the zone.
.TP 8
.B \-d
Display deltas over time, showing any zones that have achieved a new maximum
current allocation size during the interval.  If the total allocation sizes are
being displayed for the zones in question, it will also display the deltas if the
total allocations have doubled.
.B \-p <pid>
Display zone usage related to the specified process id.  Each zone will display
standard columns and the amount of memory from that zone associated with a given
process.  The letter "A" in the flags column indicates that this total is being
accounted to the process.  Otherwise, the total is an indication of the influence
the process has on the kernel, but the memory is being accounted to the kernel proper.
.PP
Any option (including default options) can be overridden
by specifying the option in upper-case; for example, -C overrides
the (default) option -c.
