.Dd 23 October 2012 
.Os "Mac OS X"
.Dt ASR 8
.Pp
.Sh NAME
.Nm asr
.Nd Apple Software Restore; copy volumes (e.g. from disk images)
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ar verb
.Op options
.Nm
.Sy restore[exact]
.Fl -source
.Ar source
.Fl -target
.Ar target
.Op Ar options
.Nm
.Sy server
.Fl -source
.Ar source
.Fl -config
.Ar configuration
.Op Ar options
.Nm
.Sy restore
.Fl -source
.Ar asr://source
.Fl -file
.Ar file
.Op Ar options
.Nm
.Sy imagescan
.Fl -source
.Ar image
.Op Ar options
.Nm
.Sy help
.Ar |
.Sy version
.\" --------------------DESCRIPTION SECTION--------------------
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
efficiently copies disk images onto volumes, either directly or via a multicast network stream.
.Nm
can also accurately clone volumes without the use of an intermediate disk image.
.Pp
In its first form,
.Nm
copies
.Ar source
(usually a disk image, potentially on an HTTP server) to
.Ns Ar target .
.Ar source
can be specified using a path in the filesystem, or an http or https URL.
It can also be an asr:// URL to indicate a multicast source.
.Nm
can also be invoked with its second form to act as a multicast server.
In its third form,
.Nm
will restore a multicast disk image to a file instead of disk volume.
In its fourth form,
.Nm
prepares a disk image to be restored efficiently, adding whole-volume
checksum information.
.Sy help
and
.Sy version
provide usage and version information, respectively.
.Pp
.Ar source
and
.Ar target
can be /dev entries or volume mountpoints. For more information on restoring to or from
APFS filesystems, see the
.Sy RESTORING WITH APFS FILESYSTEMS
section below.
If restoring a multicast disk image to a file,
.Ar file
can be a path to a local file or directory. If the specified path is a file,
the disk image is given the specified name. If a directory, the name of the
disk image being multicast is used. When specifying 
.Sy server, 
.Ar source
has to be a UDIF disk image. Restoring from a multicast stream is accomplished by passing a asr:// url as
.Ar source .
.Pp
When run in its first form above, the
.Fl -erase
option must always be used, as
.Nm
no longer supports file copying.  Such functionality is done better by 
.Xr ditto 1 .
.Pp
.Nm
needs to be run as root (see
.Ns Xr sudo 8 )
in order to accomplish its tasks.
.\" --------------------VERBS SECTION--------------------
.Sh VERBS
Each verb is listed with its description and individual arguments.
.Bl -hang -width "restoreexact"
.It Sy restore
restores a disk image or volume to another volume (including a mounted disk image)
.Bl -tag -width "puppetstrings"
.It Fl -source 
can be a disk image, /dev entry, or volume mountpoint. In the latter two cases, the volume
must be unmountable or mounted read-only in order for a erase blockcopy to occur (thus, one
cannot erase blockcopy the root filesystem as the source, unless it happened to be mounted 
read-only).
.It Fl -target 
can be a /dev entry, or volume mountpoint. Must be unmountable in order for an erase block-copy
to occur.  If
.Ar source
specifies an image of an APFS container, then
.Ar target
can specify a mounted APFS volume.  See the
.Sy RESTORING WITH APFS FILESYSTEMS
section below for details.
.It Fl -file
when performing a multicast restore, 
.Fl -file
can be specified instead of 
.Fl -target.
If the specified path is a file, the disk image is given the specified name. If a directory,
the name of the disk image being multicast is used.
.It Fl -erase
erases
.Ar target
and is required.
.Fl -erase
must always be used, as file copies are no longer supported by
.Nm .
If 
.Ar source
is a asr:// url for restoring from a multicast stream, 
.Fl -erase
must be passed (multicasting only supports erase block-copy restores).
Passing
.Fl -erase
with
.Fl -file
indicates any existing file should be overwritten when doing a multicast file copy.
.It Fl -format  Ar HFS+ | HFSX 
specifies the destination filesystem format, when
.Fl -erase
is also given. If not specified, the destination will be formatted
with the same filesystem format as the source. If multicasting, the 
.Fl -format
specified must be block copy compatible with the
.Ar source .
.Fl -format
is ignored if
.Fl -erase
is not used. Note: HFS Journaling is an attribute of the source image, and is not affected by
.Fl -format .
.It Fl -noprompt
suppresses the prompt which usually occurs before
.Ar target
is erased.
.Xr newfs_hfs 8
will be called on
.Ar target
and once you start writing new data, there isn't much hope for recovery.
You have been warned.
.It Fl -timeout Ar num
specifies
.Ar num
seconds that a multicast client should wait when no payload data has been received over 
a multicast stream before exiting, allowing the client to stop in case of server failure/stoppage.
It defaults to 0 (i.e. never time out).
.It Fl -puppetstrings
provide progress output that is easy for another program to parse.
Any program trying to interpret
.Nm Ns 's
progress should use
.Fl -puppetstrings .
.It Fl -noverify
skips the verification steps normally taken to ensure that a volume
has been properly restored.
.Fl -noverify
allows images which have not been scanned to be restored.  Skipping
verification is dangerous for a number of reasons and should never be used
in production systems.
.It Fl -allowfragmentedcatalog
allows restores to proceed even if the source's catalog file is fragmented
(in particular, if it has more than 8 extents).  By default such restores are
disallowed.  Catalog fragmentation is undesirable and in most cases it is
better to fix the problem on the source (e.g. by running fsck_hfs -r on it),
but
.Fl -allowfragmentedcatalog
is provided for situations where such a change is impractical.  This option
only makes sense if the source specifes an HFS+ filesystem variant.  It is
otherwise ignored.
.It Fl -corestorageconvert
Cause
.Ar target
to be converted to a Core Storage LVG at the end of the restore.
After the copy and verify are complete,
.Nm
will create a new Core Storage Logical Volume Group (LVG), using the
partition represented by
.Ar target
as its only physical volume (PV).  The volume contents restored from
.Ar source
will be present as a single logical volume (LV) exported from this LVG.
If
.Ar target
is already a Core Storage LV, then this option has no effect.
.It Fl -SHA256
forces the restore to use the SHA-256 hash in the image during verification.
If the image doesn't contain a SHA-256 hash, then an error will be raised.
.It Fl -sourcevolumename
tells
.Nm
which volume in the
.Ar source
container to invert when doing an APFS restore.  It is an error if more than
one volume has the specified name.  You can see the volume names and UUIDs by running
.Nm
with the
.Sy info
verb.  See the section
.Sy RESTORING WITH APFS FILESYSTEMS
below for when this option is necessary.
.It Fl -sourcevolumeUUID
tells
.Nm
which volume in the
.Ar source
container to invert when doing an APFS restore.  You can see the volume names and UUIDs by running
.Nm
with the
.Sy info
verb.  See the section
.Sy RESTORING WITH APFS FILESYSTEMS
below for when this option is necessary.
.El
.It Sy restoreexact
performs the same operation as
.Sy restore ,
taking all the same options, but with the following difference:  the target partition is resized
to exactly match the size of the source partition/volume, if such a resize can be done.  If the
target partition needs to grow and there is not enough space, then the operation will fail.  If it
needs to shrink, then it should always be able to do so, possibly leaving free space in the target
disk's partition map.  Because the target exactly matches the source in size, all volume structures
should be identical in source and target upon completion of the restore.
.It Sy server
multicasts
.Ar source
over the network. Requires
.Fl -erase
be passed in by clients (multicasting only supports erase block-copy restores).
.Bl -tag -width "interface"
.It Fl -source
.Ar source
has to be a UDIF disk image. A path to a disk image on a local/remote volume can be passed in,
or a http:// url to a disk image that is accessible via a web server.
.It Fl -interface
the network interface to be used for multicasting (e.g. en0) instead of the default network interface.
.It Fl -config
.Sy server
requires a configuration file to be passed, in standard property list format.
The following keys/options configure the various parameters for multicast operation.
.El
.Bl -tag -width "DNS Service Discovery"
.It Em Required
.It Data Rate
this is the desired data rate in bytes per second.
On average, the stream will go slightly slower than this speed, but will never exceed it.
It's a number in the plist (-int when set with
.Ns Xr defaults 1 ) .
.It \ 
Note: The performance/reliability of the networking infrastructure being multicast on is an
important factor in determining what data rate can be supported. Excessive/bursty packet
loss for a given data rate could be due to an inability of the server/client to be able to
send/receive multicast data at that rate, but it's equally important to verify that the
network infrastructure can support multicasting at the requested rate.
.It Multicast Address
this is the Multicast address for the data stream. It's a string in the plist.
.It Em Optional
.It Client Data Rate
this is the rate the slowest client can write data to its
.Ar target
in bytes per second.
if
.Nm
misses data on the first pass (x's during progress) and slowing the Data Rate doesn't
resolve it, setting the Client Data Rate will dynamically regulate the speed of the
multicast stream to allow clients more time to write the data. It's a number in the plist
(-int when set with
.Ns Xr defaults 1 ) .
.It DNS Service Discovery
whether the server should be advertised via DNS Service Discovery, a.k.a. Bonjour (tm).
It defaults to true.
It's a boolean in the plist (-bool when set with
.Ns Xr defaults 1 ) .
.It Loop Suspend
a limit of the number of times to multicast the image file when no clients have started a restore operation. Once 
exceeded, the server will stop the stream and wait for new clients before multicasting the image file. It defaults
to 0 (e.g. never stop multicasting once a client starts the stream), and should not be set to <2.
It's a number in the plist (-int when set with 
.Ns Xr defaults 1 ) .
.It Multicast TTL
the time to live on the multicast packets (for multicasting through routers). It defaults to 3. 
It cannot be set to 0, and should not be set to 1 (otherwise, it could adversely affect some network routers).
It's a number in the plist (-int when set with 
.Ns Xr defaults 1 ) .
.It Port
the port of initial client-server handshake, version checks, multicast restore metadata, and stream data.
It defaults to 7800.
This should only be included/modified if the default port cannot be used.
It's a number in the plist (-int when set with
.Ns Xr defaults 1 ) .
.El
.It Sy imagescan
calculate checksums of the data in the provided image and store them in
the image.  These checksums are used to ensure proper restores.  SHA-1 and SHA-256 hashes are used.
Also determines if the disk image is in order for multicasting, and rewrites the file in order if not.
If the image has to be reordered, it will require free disk space equal to the size of the disk image 
being scanned.
.Bl -tag -width "nostream"
.It Fl -nostream
bypasses the check/reordering of a disk image file for multicasting. By default disk images will be
rewritten in a way that's necessary for multicasting.
.It Fl -allowfragmentedcatalog
bypasses the check for a fragmented catalog file.  By default that check is done and
scanning won't be allowed on an image that has a fragmented catalog file.  It is usually
a better idea to fix the image (e.g. run fsck_hfs -r on a writable copy of it) than
to use
.Fl -allowfragmentedcatalog,
but it is provided in case fixing the image is impractical.
.El
.It Sy info
report the image metadata which was placed in the image by a previous
use of the
.Sy imagescan
verb.  Requires
.Fl -source.
The report is written to standard output.
.Bl -tag -width "plist"
.It Fl -plist
writes its output as an XML-formatted plist, suitable for parsing by
another program.
.El
.El
.Sh RESTORING WITH APFS FILESYSTEMS
Individual APFS volumes can not be restored directly, because their device nodes don't allow I/O from a
standard process.  However,
.Nm
can restore entire APFS containers, including all volumes.  Or it can restore valid system configurations, which
can get the effect of restoring a single system.  This requires understanding what is meant by a
.Sy valid system.
.Pp
In order for an APFS volume to be bootable, it must contain a properly installed macOS system.  It must also be
part of an APFS container which also has two special volumes in it: a Preboot volume and a Recovery volume.  A
container may have arbitrarily many system volumes in it, but it must have only one Preboot volume and one
Recovery volume, each with the corresponding APFS volume role set (see
.Ns Xr diskutil 1
for information on roles).  The Preboot and Recovery volumes contain information which is tied to each system
volume in the container.  So for a system volume to be bootable, that information needs to be set up in the Preboot
and Recovery volumes.  A system which is part of a container that has these two special volumes, and for which the
requisite information is set up in those volumes, will be referred to here as a
.Sy valid system.
.Pp
If the
.Ar source
of a restore is an APFS image (i.e. an image which contains an APFS container), then
.Nm
does different things depending on how
.Ar target
was specified:
.Bl -tag -width "1234"
.It Volume Restore
If the
.Ar target
is an individual volume within an existing APFS container, then
.Nm
will block restore the APFS container to a file within that volume, after which
it will invert the volume within the restored container, erasing the previous contents of the
.Ar target
volume and replacing them with the source volume contents.  If the
.Ar source
container only has a
single non-special volume (i.e. not Preboot or Recovery), then that is the volume which will be
inverted.  If the
.Ar source
container has more than one non-special volume, then either the
.Fl -sourcevolumename
or
.Fl -sourcevolumeUUID
option must be present and must specify the volume to invert.
Additionally, if the volume being inverted is a
.Sy valid system
(as defined above), then the relevant contents of both the Preboot and Recovery volumes will be
copied from the
.Ar source
to the
.Ar target ,
creating those volumes on the
.Ar target
if necessary.
.It Volume Restore with Creation
If the
.Ar target
is a synthesized APFS whole disk or Apple_APFS partition, and the
.Fl -erase
option is not present, then
.Nm
will create a new volume in the given container, after which it will do a volume restore to that new volume,
as with the previous section.  All other volumes in the container are preserved.
.It Volume Restore with Erase
If the
.Ar target
is a synthesized APFS whole disk or any disk partition, and the
.Fl -erase
option is present, then
.Nm
will erase the existing partition, create a new APFS container and a new volume in it, after which
it will do a volume restore to that new volume,
as with the previous section.
.El
.Pp
See the
.Sy EXAMPLES
section below for some command lines that show these operations.
.Sh BUFFERING
The following options control how
.Nm
uses memory.  These options can have a significant impact on performance.
.Nm
is optimized for copying between devices (different disk drives, from a
network volume to a local disk, etc).  As such,
.Nm
defaults to using eight one megabyte
buffers.  These buffers are wired down (occupying physical memory).
For partition to partition copies on the same device, one large
buffer (e.g. 32 MB) is much faster than the default eight medium
sized ones. For multicast, 4 256k buffers are the default.
Custom buffering for multicast operation is not recommended.
.Pp
.Fl -csumbuffers
and
.Fl -csumbuffersize
allow a different buffer configuration for
checksumming operations.  One checksum buffer offers the 
best performance.  The default is 1 1MB buffer. Custom
checksum buffering is not recommended.
.Pp
Like
.Ns Xr mkfile 8 ,
.Ar size
defaults to bytes but can be followed by a multiplier character (e.g. 'm').
.Bl -tag
.It Fl -buffers Ar num
specifies that
.Ar num
buffers should be used.
.It Fl -buffersize Ar size
specifies the size of each buffer.
.It Fl -csumbuffers Ar num
specifies that
.Ar num
buffers should be used for checksumming operations (which only affect the
target).
Custom checksum buffering is not recommended.
.It Fl -csumbuffersize Ar size
specifies the size of each buffer used for checksumming.
Custom checksum buffering is not recommended.
.El
.Pp
.Sh OTHER OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -compact
.It Fl -verbose
enables verbose progress and error messages.
.It Fl -debug
enables other progress and error messages.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Em Volume cloning:
.D1 sudo asr restore --source /Volumes/Classic --target /Volumes/install --erase
.Pp
.Em Restoring:
.Dl sudo asr restore -s <compressedimage> -t <targetvol> --erase
.Pp
Will erase the target and potentially do a block copy restore.
.Pp
.Em Multicast server:
.D1 asr server --source <compressedimage> --config <configuration.plist>
.Pp
Will start up a multicast server for the specified image, using the parameters
in the configuration.plist. The image will not start multicasting on the network until a client
attempts to start a restore. The server will continue to multicast the image until the process is terminated.
.Pp
.Em \&An example multicast configuration file:
.D1 defaults write /tmp/streamconfig Qo Data Rate Qc -int 6000000
.D1 defaults write /tmp/streamconfig Qo Multicast Address Qc <mcastaddr>
.D1 (will create the file /tmp/streamconfig.plist)
.D1 <mcastaddr> should be appropriate for your network infrastructure and policy, usually from a range assigned by your network administrator.
.Pp
.Em Multicast client
.D1 sudo asr restore --source asr://<hostname> --target <targetvol> --erase
.Pp
.Em Multicast client restoring to a file
.D1 sudo asr restore --source asr://<hostname> --file <file> --erase
Will receive the multicast stream from <hostname> and save it to a file. If <file> is a directory, the image of the streamed
disk image will be used the save the file. --erase causes any existing file with the same name to be overwritten.
.Pp
.Em Restoring a single APFS volume
.D1 sudo asr restore -s <APFS image> -t /Volumes/MyAPFSVolume --erase
In this case the contents of MyAPFSVolume will be replaced by the contents of the source container's single APFS volume,
possibly including any associated data for the Preboot and Recovery volumes, if the source is a
.Sy valid system .
If the source has more than one non-special volume, this is an error.  No other volumes in the target will be affected.
.Pp
.Em Restoring one of many APFS volumes
.D1 sudo asr restore -s <APFS image> --sourcevolumename SourceVolume -t /Volumes/MyAPFSVolume --erase
This tells
.Nm
to select the volume named "SourceVolume" from the given APFS image.  If there is no volume with that name, or if
there are more than one with that name, it is an error.  Use the
.Sy info
verb to see the volume names and UUIDs for an image.  No other volumes in the target will be affected.
.Pp
.Em Creating a new APFS volume on the fly
.D1 sudo asr restore -s <APFS image> --sourcevolumename SourceVolume -t /dev/disk2
Here we get the same effect as the last example, except that
.Nm
will create a new volume on the target APFS container disk, given by /dev/disk2, and use that newly created volume as
the target.  Any volumes which already existed in the container will still be there after the restore.
.Pp
.Em Overwriting the existing container
.D1 sudo asr restore -s <APFS image> --sourcevolumename SourceVolume -t /dev/disk2 --erase
Like the last example, we restore to a new volume on the target APFS container disk.  However
in this case we are erasing the target, so any volumes which already existed are destroyed.
.Pp
.Em Looking at an image's volume names/UUIDs
.D1 asr info -s <APFS image>
Assuming this image has been previously scanned (using the
.Sy imagescan
verb), this will display the volumes' names and UUIDs so they can be used with the
.Fl -sourcevolumename
or
.Fl -sourcevolumeUUID
options.
.Sh HOW TO USE ASR
.Nm
requires a properly created disk image for most efficient operation.
This image is most easily made with the Disk Utility application's
"Image from Folder" function in OS X 10.3.  The Disk Copy
from OS X 10.2.3 (v55.6) or later can also be used.
.Pp
Basic steps for imaging and restoring a volume:
.Bl -enum
.It
Set up the source volume the way you want it.
.It
Use Disk Utility's "File -> New Image -> Image from Folder..." function and select
the root of the volume.  Save the image as read-only or compressed.
"File->New Image->Image from <device>" is not recommended for restorable images.
.It
Scan the image with "Images -> Scan Image for Restore..."
.It
Select a volume and click on the "Restore" button.  Then click on the "Image..."
button to select the image you have scanned.  Click Restore.
.El
.Pp
.Sh BLOCK COPY RESTORE REQUIREMENTS
.Nm
can block copy restore HFS+/HFSX filesystems and resize the source
filesystem to fit in the target's partition if the source filesystem
data blocks will fit within the target partition's space (resizing
the filesystem geometry as appropriate).
.Pp
HFS+ can be used as the source of a block copy to either an HFS+ or HFSX destination.
However, an HFSX source can only be used to block copy to an HFSX destination.
This is because case collision of file names could occur when converting
from an HFSX filesystem to HFS+.
.Pp
Certain non-HFS+/HFSX filesystems will block copy restore, but the
target partition will be resized to match the size of the source
image/partition size, with no filesystem resizing occurring.
.Pp
.Sh COMPATIBILITY
.Nm
maintains compatibility with previous syntax, e.g.
.Pp
.Bl -item -compact
.It
.Nm
.Fl source
.Ar source
.Fl target
.Ar target
.Op Ar options
.It
.Nm
.Fl source
.Ar source
.Fl server
.Ar configuration
.Op Ar options
.It
.Nm
.Fl source
.Ar asr://source
.Fl file
.Ar file
.Op Ar options
.It
.Nm
.Fl imagescan
.Op Ar options
.Ar image
.It
.Nm
.Fl h
.Ar |
.Fl v
.El
.Pp
where
.Fl source,
.Fl target,
and 
.Fl file
are equivalent to 
.Fl -source,
.Fl -target,
and
.Fl -file
respectively,
and all
.Op Ar options
are equivalent to their -- descriptions.
.Nm
.Fl server
.Ar configuration
is superseded by
.Nm
.Sy server 
.Fl -config
.Ar configuration .
The following deprecated options also remain:
.Bl -tag -width "blockonly"
.It Fl nocheck
this option is deprecated, but remains for script compatibility.
Use
.Fl noverify
instead.
.It Fl blockonly
this option is deprecated, but remains for script compatibility. On by default.
Note that if an image scanned with
.Fl blockonly
cannot be block-copied to a particular
.Ar target
an error will occur, since the file-copy information was omitted.
.El
.Pp
.Sy Note:
Compatibility with previous syntax is not guaranteed in the next major OS release.
.Sh ERRORS
.Nm
will exit with status 1 if it cannot complete the requested operation.  A
human readable error message will be printed in most cases.  If
.Nm
has already started writing to the target volume when the error occurs,
then it will erase the target, leaving it in a valid (but empty) state.
It will, however, leave it unmounted.
.Pp
Some of the error messages which
.Nm
prints are generated by the underlying subsystems that it
uses, and their meaning is not always obvious.  Here are some useful
guidelines:
.Bl -enum
.It
.Nm
does some preflight testing before it starts actually copying data.  Errors
that show up during this preflighting are usually clear (e.g. "There is not enough space
in volume "Macintosh HD" to do the restore.")
.It
If an error occurs during the copy, it might be because there is corruption in the
source image file.  Try running "hdiutil verify" with the image.  A common error
message which indicates this is "codec overrun".
.It
Errors which occur during the copy and which don't have an obvious cause (i.e. the
error message is difficult to interpret) may be transient in nature (e.g. there
was an I/O error on the disk), and it is worth simply trying the restore again.
.El
.Sh HISTORY
Apple Software Restore got its start as a field service restoration tool
used to reconfigure computers' software to 'factory' state.  It later
became a more general software restore mechanism and software installation
helper application for various Apple computer products.  ASR has been used
in manufacturing processes and in shipping computers' System Software
Installers.
.Pp
For Mac OS X, asr was rewritten as a command line tool for manufacturing
and professional customers.
.Nm
is the backend for the Mac OS X Software Restore application that shipped
on Macintosh computers as well as the Scan and Restore functionality in
Disk Utility.
.Pp
Multicast support was added to allow multiple clients to erase restore an image
from a multicast network stream.
.Pp
Per its history, most functionality in
.Nm
is limited to HFS+ volumes.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr hdiutil 1 ,
.Xr df 1 ,
.Xr bless 8 ,
.Xr ditto 1 ,
and
.Xr what 1
