.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.Dd 7/28/16               \" DATE 
.Dt AssetCacheLocatorUtil 8      \" Program name and manual section number 
.Os "macOS"
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm AssetCacheLocatorUtil
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line. 
.\" .Nm Other_name_for_same_program(),
.\" .Nm Yet another name for the same program.
.\" Use .Nm macro to designate other names for the documented program.
.Nd Utility for reporting information about macOS Content Caches
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Op -j|--json
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
reports information related to macOS Content Caches running on the computer or on the local network.
.Pp
Some of the information that
.Nm
reports depends on the current network configuration, and on the user running it.
It might produce different results for different users, on different client devices, or on different networks.
Applications that use content caches might choose ones other than the ones
.Nm
reports due to factors beyond its knowledge, such as iCloud affinity.
.Pp
.Nm
reports the following information separately for system daemons and for the current user:
.Bl -tag
.It "Availability hint"
The system can temporarily save a hint about whether or not there might be content caches on the computer or on the local network.
.Nm
prints that saved hint if it is available.
.It "Saved content caches"
The system can temporarily save information about content caches it has previously found on the computer or on the local network.
.Nm
prints that saved information if it is available.
.It "Refreshed content caches"
.Nm
forces the system to search for content caches on the computer and on the local network and to refresh the saved information above.
It then prints the results.
.It "Public IP address ranges"
If your network administrator has configured public IP address ranges in DNS,
which the system uses when looking up content caches,
.Nm
prints those ranges.
.El
.Pp
.Nm
then reports the reachability status of all of the content caches it found.
If the computer cannot communicate with a content cache over the local network then it cannot request files from that content cache.
However, just because the computer can "ping" a content cache does not imply that that content cache will serve requests sent from this computer.
.Pp
The --json option prints the results in machine-parseable JSON format to stdout.
.Sh WARNINGS
.Nm
also reports warnings about potential issues it discovers.
.Pp
The Apple cloud service with which content caches register limits the number of content caches on a network.
This limit can change at any time.
If a larger number of content caches are available on a network than the cloud allows, client devices might not always
choose the "best" content cache.
.Nm
warns when it detects this possibility.
The number of content caches available on a network can be reduced by changing the settings of some of the content caches, using
.Ic "System Preferences > Sharing > Content Caching > press the option key > Advanced Options... > Clients > Cache content for:" .
.Pp
.Nm
also warns when it detects content caches with different
.Em ranks .
The exact value and meaning of each rank is defined by the Apple cloud service with which content caches register,
and can change at any time,
but each client device will use only the content caches with the lowest-numbered rank available to it.
A content cache's rank can be changed by adjusting its settings, using
.Ic "System Preferences > Sharing > Content Caching > press the option key > Advanced Options... > Clients > Cache content for:" .
A content cache on the same computer as the client always has the lowest-numbered rank.
.Pp
Having content caches in different ranks can be intentional or accidental,
depending on your organization.
.Nm
warns about mixed ranks in case it is accidental.
An example of an intentional use of mixed ranks is when a school has a content cache that caches content for
.Ic "devices using the same local networks"
and the school's district office has another content cache that caches content for
.Ic "devices using the same public IP address" .
Client devices in the school will use the school's content cache.
Client devices in a different school in the same district will use the district's content cache.
.Pp
Every content cache must have a unique GUID.
.Nm
warns when it finds content caches in your organization with duplicate GUIDs.
A content cache's GUID can be changed by stopping the content cache,
running the following command in Terminal as an admin user,
and then restarting it:
.Ic "sudo -u _assetcache defaults write /Library/Preferences/com.apple.AssetCache.plist ServerGUID = `uuidgen`"
.Pp
Another issue about which
.Nm
warns is when public IP address ranges are configured but the client device's public IP address is not in the configured ranges.
This could prevent the device from using your organization's content caches.
To configure custom public IP address ranges use
.Ic "System Preferences > Sharing > Content Caching > press the option key > Advanced Options... > Clients > My local networks:"
and set DNS TXT records appropriately.
.Sh SEE ALSO 
System Preferences > Sharing > Content Caching,
.Xr AssetCacheManagerUtil 8
