.Dd November 14, 2012
.Os Darwin
.Dt KEXTFIND 8
.Sh NAME
.Nm kextfind
.Nd find kernel extensions (kexts) based on a variety of criteria and print information
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Ar options
.Op Fl -
.Op Ar kext_or_directory Li \&.\|.\|.
.Op Ar query
.Op Fl report Oo Fl no-header Oc Ar report_predicate Li \&.\|.\|.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility locates and prints information, or generates reports,
about kernel extensions (kexts)
matching the search criteria in
.Ar query
from among those in the named directory and extension arguments.
If no directories or extensions are specified,
.Nm
searches /System/Library/Extensions and /Library/Extensions.
Searches are performed via kext management logic
as used by
.Xr kextload 8
and
.Xr kextd 8 ,
by which only kexts directly in the repository directory
or kexts explicitly named
(and their immediate plugins) are eligible;
this is specifically not an exhaustive, recursive filesystem search.
.Pp
Construct your search using any of the
query and command predicates listed below.
You can combine predicates with the
logical operators
.Fl and ,
.Fl or ,
and
.Fl not ,
and group them with parentheses.
.Pp
Query command predicates generally print
some bit of information about a kext,
such as its pathname or bundle identifier,
followed by either a newline or an ASCII NUL.
You can also generate a tab-delimited report
using the
.Fl report
keyword after the query expression;
if you do, you must not specify
any of the command predicates described below.
.Pp
If no command predicate or report is specified,
.Nm
implicitly executes a
.Fl print
command predicate for each kext matching the query.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width indent -compact
.It Fl h , Fl help
Print a help message describing each option flag and exit with a success result,
regardless of any other options on the command line.
.It Fl set-arch Ar arch
Set the architecture used for such things as architecture-specific
properties to
.Ar arch .
You can only perform a query with one such architecture;
searches for multiple executable architectures are possible,
for example,
but you can't search for two architecture-specific values
of a single property.
.It Fl i , Fl case-insensitive
Perform case-insensitive comparisons for all property, match property,
and bundle identifier query predicates when values are strings.
Has no effect when property values are numbers or booleans.
You can also use this option with individual property query predicates.
.It Fl s , Fl substring
Perform substring searches for all property, match property,
and bundle identifier query predicates when values are strings.
Has no effect when property values are numbers or booleans.
You can also use this option with individual property query predicates.
.It Fl no-paths
Print no paths for kexts, just their bundle names,
and for info dictionary and executable files,
their paths relative to the kext itself.
This can be ambiguous with plugins of the same name
and when searching multiple repositories.
.It Fl relative-paths
Print pathnames relative to kexts' repositories
(which can be ambiguous if multiple repositories are being searched).
.It Fl 0 , Fl nul
Make the
.Fl echo
and all
.Fl print Ns \&.\|.\|.
command predicates except for
.Fl print-diagnostics
emit an ASCII NUL character (character code 0)
in place of any newlines.
This is useful when sending the output to
.Xr xargs 1 .
You can also use this flag individually with those command predicates.
.It Fl f Ar kext_or_directory , Fl search-item Ar kext_or_directory
Specifies a kext or directory of kexts to search.
May be specified multiple times.
While you can normally just list them
without an option flag,
these are provided to prevent ambiguity with the query expression.
.It Fl e , Fl system-extensions
Adds /System/Library/Extensions and /Library/Extensions to the list of directories to search.
If you don't specify any directories or kexts, this is used by default.
.It Fl -
End of options.
.El
.Sh QUERY PREDICATES
Descriptions of all available search criteria and commands follow,
grouped by general category.
.Sh Search by Bundle Name, or Info Dictionary or Match (Personality) Properties
Most of these predicates take the
.Fl case-insensitive Li ( Ns Fl i Ns Li )
and
.Fl substring Li ( Ns Fl s Ns Li )
options as described above.
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width indent -compact
.It Fl b Oo Fl i Ns Li | Ns Fl case-insensitive Oc Oo Fl s Ns Li | Ns Fl substring Oc Ar identifier
.It Fl bundle-id Oo Fl i Ns Li | Ns Fl case-insensitive Oc Oo Fl s Ns Li | Ns Fl substring Oc Ar identifier
True if the kext's bundle identifier matches
.Ar identifier .
This is equivalent to
.Fl property Cm CFBundleIdentifier Ar identifier Ns Li .
.It Fl dup
.It Fl duplicate-id
True if any other kext has the same bundle identifier as the current kext.
.It Fl B Oo Fl i Ns Li | Ns Fl case-insensitive Oc Oo Fl s Ns Li | Ns Fl substring Oc Ar name
.It Fl bundle-name Oo Fl i Ns Li | Ns Fl case-insensitive Oc Oo Fl s Ns Li | Ns Fl substring Oc Ar name
True if the kext's bundle name matches
.Ar name .
.It Fl m Oo Fl i Ns Li | Ns Fl case-insensitive Oc Oo Fl s Ns Li | Ns Fl substring Oc Ar name value
.It Fl match-property Oo Fl i Ns Li | Ns Fl case-insensitive Oc Oo Fl s Ns Li | Ns Fl substring Oc Ar name Ar value
True if the kext has at least one personality
that contains
.Ar value
as a string, number, or boolean value
(expressible as
.Dq Li true ,
.Dq Li yes ,
.Dq Li 1
or
.Dq Li false ,
.Dq Li no ,
.Dq Li 0 )
for the named property.
.It Fl me Ar name
.It Fl match-property-exists Ar name
True if the kext has at least one personality
containing any value for the named property.
.It Fl p Oo Fl i Ns Li | Ns Fl case-insensitive Oc Oo Fl s Ns Li | Ns Fl substring Oc Ar name Ar value
.It Fl property Oo Fl i Ns Li | Ns Fl case-insensitive Oc Oo Fl s Ns Li | Ns Fl substring Oc Ar name Ar value
True if the kext's info dictionary contains
.Ar value
as a string, number, or boolean value
(expressible as
.Dq Li true ,
.Dq Li yes ,
.Dq Li 1
or
.Dq Li false ,
.Dq Li no ,
.Dq Li 0 )
for the named property.
.It Fl pe Ar name
.It Fl property-exists Ar name
True if the kext's info dictionary
contains any value for the named property.
.El
.Sh Search by Loaded/Loadable
.Bl -tag -width indent -compact
.It Fl a , Fl authentic
True if the kext is owned by root:wheel and has proper permissions.
.It Fl d , Fl dependencies-met
True if the kext has all its dependencies met.
.It Fl nd , Fl dependencies-missing
True if the kext is missing dependencies
(or can't have its dependencies resolved).
.It Fl na , Fl inauthentic
True if the kext is not owned by root:wheel or has improper permissions
(or can't be so authenticated).
.It Fl nv , Fl invalid
True if the kext is not valid.
.It Fl l , Fl loadable
True if the kext appears to be loadable.
(It may still fail to load due to link errors.)
.It Fl loaded
True if the kext is currently loaded
(if its bundle identifier, version, and executable UUID match
a kext loaded in the kernel).
.It Fl nl , Fl nonloadable
True if the kext can't be loaded because it is invalid, inauthentic,
or missing dependencies.
.It Fl v , Fl valid
True if the kext is valid.
.It Fl w , Fl warnings
True if any warnings are noted while validating the kext.
.El
.Sh Search by Executable, Architecture, or Symbol
.Bl -tag -width indent -compact
.It Fl arch Ar arch1 Ns Oo Ns Cm , Ns Ar arch2 Ns Li \&.\|.\|. Oc
True if the kext contains
all of the named CPU architectures (separated by commas only with no spaces),
and possibly others,
in its executable.
.It Fl ax Ar arch1 Ns Oo Ns Cm , Ns Ar arch2 Ns Li \&.\|.\|. Oc , Fl arch-exact Ar arch1 Ns Oo Ns Cm , Ns Ar arch2 Ns Li \&.\|.\|. Oc
True if the kext contains
.Em all
of the named CPU architectures (separated by commas only with no spaces),
and no others,
in its executable.
.It Fl dsym Ar symbol , Fl defines-symbol Ar symbol
True if the kext defines the named
.Ar symbol 
in any of its architectures.
The name must match exactly
with the (possibly mangled) symbol
in the kext's executable.
Such names typically begin with at lease one underscore;
see
.Xr nm 1 .
A kext must also be a library for others to link against it
(see
.Fl "library" Ns ).
.It Fl x , Fl executable
True if the kext declares an executable via the CFBundleExecutable property
(whether it actually has one or not;
that is, if the kext declares one but it's missing,
this predicate is true even though the kext is invalid).
.It Fl nx , Fl no-executable
True if the kext does not declare an executable via the CFBundleExecutable property.
.It Fl rsym Ar symbol , Fl references-symbol Ar symbol
True if the kext has an undefined reference to the named
.Ar symbol 
in any of its architectures.
The name must match exactly
with the (possibly mangled) symbol
in the kext's executable.
Such names typically begin with at lease one underscore;
see
.Xr nm 1 .
.El
.Sh Search by Miscellaneous Attribute
.Bl -tag -width indent -compact
.It Fl debug
True if the kext has a top-level OSBundleEnableKextLogging property set to true,
or if any of its personalities has an IOKitDebug property other than zero.
(Note: As of Mac OS X 10.6 (Snow Leopard), the property OSBundleDebugLevel is no longer used.)
.It Fl has-plugins
True if the kext contains plugins.
.It Fl integrity Li { Cm correct Ns | Ns Cm modified Ns | Ns Cm no-receipt Ns | Ns Cm not-apple Ns | Ns Cm unknown Li }
OBSOLETE. As of Mac OS X 10.6 (Snow Leopard),
kext integrity is not used and this predicate always evaluates to false.
.It Fl kernel-resource
True if the kext represents a resource built into the kernel.
.It Fl lib , Fl library
True if the kext is a library that other kexts can link against.
.It Fl plugin
True if the kext is a plugin of another kext.
.El
.Sh Search by Startup Requirement
These options find kexts that are used at startup or allowed
to load during safe boot.
They should be combined with the
.Fl or
operator.
(The standard system mkext file contains
console, local-root, and root kexts,
so you would specify
.Do Li \\e( -console -or -local-root -or -root \\e) Dc Ns .
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width indent -compact
.It Fl C , Fl console
True if the kext is potentially required for console-mode startup
(same as
.Fl p Cm OSBundleRequired Console
but always case-sensitive).
.It Fl L , Fl local-root
True if the kext is potentially required for local-root startup
(same as
.Fl p Cm OSBundleRequired Local-Root
but always case-sensitive).
.It Fl N , Fl network-root
True if the kext is potentially required for network-root startup
(same as
.Fl p Cm OSBundleRequired Network-Root
but always case-sensitive).
.It Fl R , Fl root
True if the kext is potentially required for root startup
(same as
.Fl p Cm OSBundleRequired Root
but always case-sensitive).
.It Fl S , Fl safe-boot
True if the kext is potentially allowed to load during safe boot
(same as
.Fl p Cm OSBundleRequired 'Safe Boot'
but always case-sensitive).
.El
.Sh Search by Version
.Bl -tag -width indent -compact
.It Fl compatible-with-version Ar version
True if the kext is a library kext compatible with the given version.
.It Fl V Xo
.Oo Cm ne Ns | Ns Cm gt Ns | Ns Cm ge Ns | Ns Cm lt Ns | Ns Cm le Oc Ns Ar version Ns
.Oo Ns Cm - Ns Ar version Oc
.Xc
.It Fl version Xo
.Oo Cm ne Ns | Ns Cm gt Ns | Ns Cm ge Ns | Ns Cm lt Ns | Ns Cm le Oc Ns Ar version Ns
.Oo Ns Cm - Ns Ar version Oc
.Xc
True if the kext's version matches the version expression.
You can either specify an operator before a single version,
or a range of versions.
Remember that nonfinal versions such as 1.0d21
compare as less than final versions (in this case 1.0);
construct your version expression accordingly.
See also
.Fl library .
.El
.Sh QUERY COMMAND PREDICATES
These predicates print information about kexts that match the query,
or run a utility on the kext bundle directory, its info dictionary file,
or its executable.
Execpt for
.Fl exec ,
these all have a true result for purposes of query evaluation.
.Pp
The
.Fl echo
and all
.Fl print Ns \&.\|.\|.
command predicates except for
.Fl print-diagnostics
accept a
.Fl nul Li ( Ns Fl 0 Ns Li )
option to emit an ASCII NUL character (character code 0)
in place of any newlines.
This is useful when sending the output to
.Xr xargs 1 .
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width indent -compact
.It Fl echo Oo Fl n Ns | Ns Fl no-newline Oc Oo Fl 0 Ns | Ns Fl nul Oc Ar string
Prints
.Ar string 
followed by a newline.
You can specify
.Fl n
or
.Fl no-newline
to omit the newline.
If you specify both
.Fl n
and
.Fl nul ,
.Ar string
is not followed
by either a newline or an ASCII NUL character.
.It Ic -exec Ar utility Oo Ar argument Li \&.\|.\|. Oc Li \&;
True if the program named
.Ar utility
returns a zero value as its exit status.
Optional
.Ar arguments
may be passed to the utility.
The expression must be terminated by a semicolon
.Pq Dq Li \&; .
If you invoke
.Nm
from a shell you may need to quote the semicolon if the shell would
otherwise treat it as a control operator.
The strings
.Dq Li {} ,
.Dq Li {info-dictionary} ,
and
.Dq Li {executable} ,
appearing anywhere in the utility name or the
arguments are replaced by the pathname of the current kext,
its info dictionary, or its executable, respectively.
.Ar utility
will be executed from the directory from which
.Nm
was executed.
.Ar utility
and
.Ar arguments
are not subject to the further expansion of shell patterns
and constructs.
.It Fl print Oo Fl 0 Ns | Ns Fl nul Oc
Prints the pathname of the kext.
If no command predicate is specified,
the query as a whole becomes equivalent to
.Cm \&( Ar query Cm \&) Fl and Fl print .
.It Fl print0
Equivalent to
.Fl print
.Fl nul ,
for all you
.Xr find 1
users out there.
.It Fl pa Oo Fl 0 Ns | Ns Fl nul Oc
.It Fl print-arches Oo Fl 0 Ns | Ns Fl nul Oc
Prints the names of all the architectures
in the kext executable (if it has one),
separated by commas.
.It Fl print-dependencies Oo Fl 0 Ns | Ns Fl nul Oc
Prints the pathnames of all direct and indirect dependencies of the kext.
.It Fl print-dependents Oo Fl 0 Ns | Ns Fl nul Oc
Prints the pathnames of all direct and indirect dependents of the kext.
.It Fl pdiag
.It Fl print-diagnostics
Prints validation and authentication failures,
missing dependencies,
and warnings for the kext.
.It Fl px Oo Fl 0 Ns | Ns Fl nul Oc
.It Fl print-executable Oo Fl 0 Ns | Ns Fl nul Oc
Prints the pathname to the kext's executable file.
.It Fl pid Oo Fl 0 Ns | Ns Fl nul Oc
.It Fl print-info-dictionary Oo Fl 0 Ns | Ns Fl nul Oc
Prints the pathname to the kext's info dictionary file.
(You can use
.Do Li "-exec cat {info-dictionary} \e;" Dc
or
.Do Li "-exec pl -input {info-dictionary} \e;" Dc
to print the contents of the file.)
.It Fl print-integrity Oo Fl 0 Ns | Ns Fl nul Oc
OBSOLETE. As of Mac OS X 10.6 (Snow Leopard),
kext integrity is not used and this command prints
.Dq n/a
for
.Dq "not applicable" .
.It Fl print-plugins Oo Fl 0 Ns | Ns Fl nul Oc
Prints the pathnames of all plugins of the kext.
.It Fl pm Oo Fl 0 Ns | Ns Fl nul Oc Ar name
.It Fl print-match-property Oo Fl 0 Ns | Ns Fl nul Oc Ar name
For each matching personality in the kext, if the named property exists,
prints the personality's name, a colon, then
.Ar name
followed by an equals sign and the property's value.
Results in true even if the property does not exist for any personality.
.It Fl pp Oo Fl 0 Ns | Ns Fl nul Oc Ar name
.It Fl print-property Oo Fl 0 Ns | Ns Fl nul Oc Ar name
If the top-level property exists, prints
.Ar name
followed by an equals sign and its value.
Results in true even if the property does not exist.
.El
.Sh OPERATORS
The query primaries may be combined using the following operators.
The operators are listed in order of decreasing precedence.
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width indent -compact
.It Cm \&( Ar expression Cm \&)
This evaluates to true if the parenthesized
.Ar expression
evaluates to true.
Note that in many shells parentheses are special characters
and must be escaped or quoted.
.It Cm \&! Ar expression
.It Fl not Ar expression
This is the unary NOT operator.
It evaluates to true if
.Ar expression
is false,
to false if
.Ar expression
is true.
Note that in many shells
.Dq Li \&!
is a special character
and must be escaped or quoted.
.It Ar expression Fl and Ar expression
.It Ar expression Ar expression
The
.Ar and
operator is the logical AND operator.
It is implied by the juxtaposition of two expressions
and therefore need not be specified.
It evaluates to true if both expressions are true.
If the first expression is false, the second expression is not evaluated.
.It Ar expression Fl or Ar expression
The
.Fl or
operator is the logical OR operator.
It evaluates to true if either expression is true.
If the first expression is true, the second expression is not evaluated.
.El
.Sh REPORTS
Use the following predicates in a report expression
to generate a tab-delimited format,
one kext per line,
suitable for further processing (or immediate edification).
The report normally starts with a header line labeling each column;
you can skip this by following
.Fl report
directly with
.Fl no-header .
.Pp
The report predicate keywords are almost all the same as query predicates,
but have different purposes (and arguments in several cases).
In general, where a query predicate is looking for a value,
a report predicate is retrieving it.
Thus, the property predicates only take the name of the property,
and print the value of that property for the kext being examined.
Report predicates based on attributes with multiple values,
such as
.Fl print-dependencies ,
print the number of values rather than the values themselves.
Finally, report predicates for yes/no questions print
.Dq yes
or
.Dq no .
.Pp
Note that many shorthands for inverted meanings, such as
.Fl invalid ,
are not available for reports (they would only be confusing).
Others, such as
.Fl match-property ,
could generate multiple values that would be impossible
to embed meaningfully in plain tab-delimited text
(and knowing how many of them there are is not useful).
.Pp
.Sh Value Report Predicates
.Bl -tag -width indent -compact
.It Fl b , Fl bundle-id
Prints the kext's bundle identifier.
.It Fl B , Fl bundle-name
Prints the kext's bundle name.
.It Fl integrity , Fl print-integrity
OBSOLETE. As of Mac OS X 10.6 (Snow Leopard),
kext integrity is not used and this command prints
.Dq n/a
for
.Dq "not applicable" .
.It Fl V , Fl version
Prints the kext's version.
.It Fl print
Prints the kext's pathname.
.It Fl pa , Fl print-arches
Prints the names of the architectures, if any, in the kext executable.
.It Fl print-dependencies
Prints the number of dependencies found for the kext.
.It Fl print-dependents
Prints the number of kexts found that depend on the kext.
.It Fl px , Fl print-executable
Prints the pathname of the kext's executable (if it has one).
.It Fl pid , Fl print-info-dictionary
Prints the pathname of the kext's info dictionary.
.It Fl print-plugins
Prints the number of plugin kexts the kext has.
.It Fl p Ar name , Fl property Ar name
.It Fl pp Ar name , Fl print-property Ar name
Prints the value for the top-level info dictionary property with key
.Ar name .
If the key is not defined, prints
.Dq Li "<null>" .
.It Fl sym Ar symbol , Fl symbol Ar symbol
Prints
.Dq references
or
.Dq defines
if the kext
references or defines
.Ar symbol .
(This is the only report predicate that is not also a query predicate.)
.El
.Sh Yes/No Report Predicates
.Bl -tag -width indent -compact
.It Fl arch Ar arch1 Ns Oo Ns Cm , Ns Ar arch2 Ns \&.\|.\|. Oc
.Dq Li yes
if the kexts contains
.Em all
the named architectures (and possibly others),
.Dq Li no
otherwise.
.It Fl ax Ar arch1 Ns Oo Ns Cm , Ns Ar arch2 Ns \&.\|.\|. Oc , Fl arch-exact Ar arch1 Ns Oo Ns Cm , Ns Ar arch2 Ns \&.\|.\|. Oc
.Dq Li yes
if the kexts contains
.Em exactly
the named architectures (and no others),
.Dq Li no
otherwise.
.It Fl a , Fl authentic
.It Fl debug
.It Fl d , Fl dependencies-met
.It Fl dup, Fl duplicate-identifier
.It Fl x , Fl executable
.It Fl has-plugins
.It Fl kernel-resource
.It Fl lib , Fl library
.It Fl l , Fl loadable
.It Fl loaded
.It Fl plugin
.It Fl w , Fl warnings
.It Fl v , Fl valid
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following examples are shown as given to the shell:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Li "kextfind -case-insensitive -not -bundle-id -substring 'com.apple.' -print"
Print a list of all non-Apple kexts.
.It Li "kextfind \e( -nonloadable -or -warnings \e) -print -print-diagnostics"
Print a list of all kexts that aren't loadable or that have any warnings,
along with what's wrong with each.
.It Li "kextfind -nonloadable -print-dependents | sort | uniq"
Print a list of all kexts that can't be loaded because
of problems with their dependencies.
.It Li "kextfind -defines-symbol __ZTV14IONetworkStack"
Print a list of all kexts that define the symbol
__ZTV14IONetworkStack.
.It Li "kextfind -relative-paths -arch-exact ppc,i386"
Print a list of all kexts kexts that contain only ppc and i386 code.
.It Li "kextfind -debug -print -pp OSBundleDebugLevel -pm IOKitDebug"
Print a list of all kexts that have debug options set,
along with the values of the debug options.
.It Li "kextfind -m IOProviderClass IOMedia -print -exec pl -input {info-dictionary} \;"
Print a list of all kexts that match on IOMedia,
along with their info dictionaries.
.It Li "kextfind -no-paths -nl -report -print -v -a -d"
Print a report of kexts that can't be loaded,
with hints as to the problems.
.El
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
The
.Nm
utility exits with a status of 0 on completion
(whether or not any kexts are found),
or with a nonzero status if an error occurs.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr find 1 ,
.Xr kextcache 8 ,
.Xr kextd 8 ,
.Xr kextload 8 ,
.Xr kextstat 8 ,
.Xr kextunload 8 ,
.Xr xargs 1
.Sh BUGS
Many single-letter options are inconsistent in meaning
with (or directly contradictory to) the same letter options
in other kext tools.
.Pp
Several special characters used by
.Nm
are also special characters to many shell programs.
In particular, the characters
.Dq Li \&! ,
.Dq Li \&( ,
and
.Dq Li \&) ,
may have to be escaped from the shell.
