.Dd November 14, 2012 
.Os Darwin
.Dt KEXTLOAD 8
.Sh NAME
.Nm kextload
.Nd load kernel extensions (kexts) into the kernel
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Ar options
.Op Fl -
.Op Ar kext Li \&.\|.\|.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
program is used to explicitly load kernel extensions (kexts).
For most kexts,
.Nm
must run as the superuser (root).
Kexts installed under
.Pa /System/
with an
OSBundleAllowUserLoad
property set to true
may be loaded via
.Nm
by non-root users.
.Pp
.Em Notice:
On Mac OS X 10.6 (Snow Leopard), the developer functionality of 
.Nm
has moved to the new program
.Xr kextutil 8 ;
all developer-related options have been removed from
.Nm
and are no longer recognized.
On Mac OS X 10.6 (Snow Leopard),
.Nm
simply forwards a load request to
.Xr kextd 8 ,
which performs all communication with the kernel.
.Pp
.Nm
is a formal interface for kext loading in all versions
of Darwin OS and Mac OS X.
Software and installers can rely on its presence
and invoke it in order to load kexts.
Note that long options are present as of Mac OS X 10.6 (Snow Leopard).
.Pp
Mac OS X 10.6 (Snow Leopard) introduces
C functions for loading kexts:
.Xr KextManagerLoadKextWithIdentifier()
and
.Xr KextManagerLoadKextWithURL() ,
which are described in Apple's developer documentation.
.Pp
.Sh ARGUMENTS AND OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Ar kext
The pathname of a kext bundle to load.
The kext's plugins are available for dependency resolution.
Kexts can also be specified by CFBundleIdentifier with the
.Fl bundle-id
option.
.It Fl b Ar identifier , Fl bundle-id Ar identifier
Look up the kext whose CFBundleIdentifier is
.Ar identifier
within the set of known kexts and load it.
The kext of the highest CFBundleVersion with the given identifier is used;
in the case of version ties,
the last such kext specified on the command line is used.
See the
.Fl dependency
and
.Fl repository
options for more information.
.It Fl d Ar kext , Fl dependency Ar kext
Add
.Ar kext
and its plugins to the set of known kexts for resolving dependencies.
This is useful for adding a single kext from a directory
while excluding the others.
See the
.Fl repository
option for more information.
.It Fl h , Fl help
Print a help message describing each option flag and exit with a success result,
regardless of any other options on the command line.
.It Fl q , Fl quiet
Quiet mode; print no informational or error messages.
.It Fl r Ar directory , Fl repository Ar directory
Use
.Ar directory
as a repository of kexts.
This adds to the set of known kexts for resolving dependencies
or looking up by CFBundleIdentifier when using the
.Fl bundle-id
option.
This is not recursive; only kexts directly within the directory,
and their plugins, are scanned.
See also the
.Fl dependency
option.
.It Fl v Li [ 0-6 | 0x#### Ns Li ] , Fl verbose Li [ 0-6 | 0x#### Ns Li ]
Verbose mode; print information about program operation.
Higher levels of verbosity include all lower levels.
You can specify a level from 0-6,
or a bitmask of flags as a hexadecimal number prefixed with 0x
(as described in
.Xr kext_logging 8 Ns No ).
Because
.Nm
messages
.Xr kextd 8 ,
to perform the actual work of loading,
the decimal levels 1-6 generally have little effect.
You may wish to use
.Xr kextutil 8
if you want verbose output about the kext loading operation.
.Pp
.It Fl -
End of all options. Only kext names follow.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
To load a kext, run
.Nm
and supply a kext bundle name;
no options are required:
.Bd -literal -offset "xxx"
kextload TabletDriver.kext
.Ed
.Pp
Alternatively, you can use the
.Fl bundle-id
.Li ( Ns Fl b Ns Li )
option to specify a kext by its CFBundleIdentifier:
.Bd -literal -offset "xxx"
kextload -bundle-id com.mycompany.driver.TabletDriver
.Ed
.Pp
With no additional options
.Nm
looks in the extensions directories
.Li ( Ns Pa /System/Library/Extensions/
and
.Pa /Library/Extensions/ Ns Li )
for a kext with the given CFBundleIdentifier.
Adding repository directories with the
.Fl repository
option or individual kexts with the
.Fl dependency
option expands the set of kexts that
.Nm
looks among for dependency resolution and for loading by bundle identifier:
.Bd -literal -offset "xxx"
kextload -repository /Applications/MyApp.app/Contents/Resources \\
    TabletDriver.kext
.Ed
.Pp
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width "/System/Library/Extensions/" -compact
.It Pa /System/Library/Extensions/
The standard system repository of kernel extensions
.It Pa /Library/Extensions/
The standard repository of non Apple kernel extensions
.El
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Nm
exits with a zero status if all kexts specified load successfully
(or are already loaded).
If any kext fails to load,
.Nm
prints an error message for that kext,
continues trying to load any remaining kexts,
then exits with a nonzero status.
.Pp
For a kext to be loadable, it must be
valid, authenticated, and all dependencies of the kext must be available and loadable.
A valid kext has a well formed bundle, info dictionary,
and an executable built for the running kernel's architecture.
An authentic kext's component files,
not including plugins,
are owned by root:wheel,
with permissions nonwritable by group and other.
If your kext fails to load, try using
.Xr kextutil 8
to examine the kext for problems.
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.Xr kextcache 8 ,
.Xr kextd 8 ,
.Xr kextstat 8 ,
.Xr kextunload 8 ,
.Xr kextutil 8 ,
.Xr kext_logging 8
