.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999-2006 Apple Computer, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" @APPLE_LICENSE_HEADER_START@
.\" 
.\" This file contains Original Code and/or Modifications of Original Code
.\" as defined in and that are subject to the Apple Public Source License
.\" Version 2.0 (the 'License'). You may not use this file except in
.\" compliance with the License. Please obtain a copy of the License at
.\" http://www.opensource.apple.com/apsl/ and read it before using this
.\" file.
.\" 
.\" The Original Code and all software distributed under the License are
.\" distributed on an 'AS IS' basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AND APPLE HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL SUCH WARRANTIES,
.\" INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, QUIET ENJOYMENT OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.
.\" Please see the License for the specific language governing rights and
.\" limitations under the License.
.\" 
.\" @APPLE_LICENSE_HEADER_END@
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)nfsiod.8	8.2 (Berkeley) 2/22/94
.\"
.Dd October 25, 2006
.Dt NFSIOD 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm nfsiod
.Nd local
.Tn NFS
asynchronous I/O
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl n Ar num_threads
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is deprecated.  See
.Xr nfs.conf 5
for NFS configuration info.
.Pp
.Nm
controls the maximum number of asynchronous I/O threads used
for NFS mounts.  Historically, it has consisted of a daemon that
never exits.  However, asynchronous I/O requests are now serviced
by threads launched on demand in the kernel and the
.Nm
command simply sets the configuration limit.
.Pp
Having asynchronous I/O threads improves performance but is not required
for correct operation.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl n
Specify maximum number of asynchronous I/O threads to be used.
.El
.Pp
If no maximum is specified,
.Nm
displays the current value.  The default value is 16.  A client should
allow enough threads to handle its maximum level of concurrency.
.Pp
The
.Nm
utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr nfs.conf 5 ,
.Xr mount_nfs 8 ,
.Xr nfsstat 1
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm nfsiod
utility first appeared in 4.4BSD.  It's use was deprecated in Darwin 9.
