.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" @APPLE_LICENSE_HEADER_START@
.\" 
.\" This file contains Original Code and/or Modifications of Original Code
.\" as defined in and that are subject to the Apple Public Source License
.\" Version 2.0 (the 'License'). You may not use this file except in
.\" compliance with the License. Please obtain a copy of the License at
.\" http://www.opensource.apple.com/apsl/ and read it before using this
.\" file.
.\" 
.\" The Original Code and all software distributed under the License are
.\" distributed on an 'AS IS' basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AND APPLE HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL SUCH WARRANTIES,
.\" INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, QUIET ENJOYMENT OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.
.\" Please see the License for the specific language governing rights and
.\" limitations under the License.
.\" 
.\" @APPLE_LICENSE_HEADER_END@
.\"
.Dd February 7, 2009
.Dt pam_launchd 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm pam_launchd
.Nd launchd PAM module
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Op Ar service-name
.Ar function-class
.Ar control-flag
pam_launchd
.Op Ar options
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The launchd PAM module supports the session management function class.  In terms of the
.Ar function-class
parameter, this is the
.Dq Li session
class.
.Pp
The launchd session module is used to move the authenticated session to the correct, per-user, launchd namespace.
.Pp
The following option may be passed to this session management module:
.Bl -tag
.It Cm launchd_session_type=SESSION_TYPE
Move this session to the launchd session type specified.
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag
.It Ev launchd_session_type=SESSION_TYPE
Move this session to the launchd session type specified.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr launchd 8 ,
.Xr pam.conf 5 ,
.Xr pam 8
