.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.Dd March 16, 2007               \" DATE 
.Dt raidutil 8      \" Program name and manual section number 
.Os Mac OS
.\"
.\"
.\"
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm raidutil
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line. 
.\" .Nm Other_name_for_same_program(),
.\" .Nm Yet another name for the same program.
.\" Use .Nm macro to designate other names for the documented program.
.Nd Manage, manipulate, and view RAID objects.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.\".Op Fl global options              \" [-abcd]
.\".Op Fl a Ar path         \" [-a path] 
.Op Ar global options              \" [global options]
.\".Op Ar                   \" [file ...]
.Ar verb                 \" Underlined argument - use .Ar anywhere to underline
.Ar direct-object                 \" Underlined argument - use .Ar anywhere to underline
arguments ...                 \" Arguments
.\"
.\"
.\"
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
utilizes the CoreRAID framework to manipulate RAID devices.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.Sh GLOBAL OPTIONS          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
There are several global options that may be used with
.Nm .  These options are not specific to any particular verb.  Instead they have a global effect upon the
way that raidutil performs.  These global options are:
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Begins a tagged list 
.It Fl c\ <ControllerType>\ | -controller\ <ControllerType>
This option (controller) allows the user to specify a controller type.
.It Fl h\ | -help
This option (help) will print the standard "usage" text.
.It Fl t\ | -terse
This option (terse) will minimize superfluous text.
.It Fl v\ | -verbose
This option (verbose) will maximize the amount of detailed infomation the program will provide.
.It Fl V\ | -version
This option (Version) will print out version information about this program.
.El                      \" Ends the list
.\"
.\"
.\"
.Sh VERBS, DIRECT OBJECTS, AND SPECIFIC ARGUMENTS          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Begins a tagged list 
.Pp
.It Sy acknowledge event Ar -n <EventNumber>
.br
Marks an event as acknowledged by specifiying an identifying event number.  The -n may also be expressed as --number.
.Pp
.It Sy create raidset Ar -n <NewRAIDSet> -d <ListOfDriveBays> -r <RaidLevel>
.br
Create a RAIDSet specifiying: a RAIDSet name; a list of drive bays; the RAID level.  The -n, -d,
and -r flags may also be expressed as --name, --drives, and --raidlevel, respectively.  Valid raidlevel's are J+, 0, 1, 5, 0+1.
.Pp
.It Sy create volume Ar -n <NewVolumeName> -r <NameOfRAIDSet> -s <SizeOfVolume>
.br
Create a volume specifiying: a volume name; a RAIDSet to build the volume on; the size of the volume.
The -n, -d, and -s flags may also be expressed as --name, --raidset, and --size, respectively.
.Pp
.It Sy delete raidset Ar -n <NameOfRAIDSet> [-f] [-u]
.br
Remove a RAIDSet.  The name of the RAIDSet is specified using the -n argument.
The -n flag may also be expressed as --name.  The optional -f flag may also be expressed as --force.
The optional -u flag may also be expressed as --unmount.
.Pp
.It Sy delete volume Ar -n <NameOfVolume> [-r <RAIDSet>] [-f] [-u]
.br
Remove a volume.  The name of the volume is specified using the -n argument.
The -n flag may also be expressed as --name.  The optional -r flag may also be expressed as --raidset.
The optional -f flag may also be expressed as --force.
The optional -u flag may also be expressed as --unmount.
.Pp
.It Sy list [devices]
.br
List all known RAID devices.  This is the default behavior if no direct object is specified.
.Pp
.It Sy list status
.br
Prints an overview of status information for the targeted RAID device.
.\" .Pp
.\" .It Sy list controllerinfo Li "                        "   Sy !!! under development !!!
.\" .br
.\" Lists relevant information about the controller for the targeted RAID device.
.\" .Pp
.\" .It Sy list coprocessorinfo Li "                       "   Sy !!! under development !!!
.\" .br
.\" Lists relevant information about any coprocessors associated with the targeted RAID device.
.Pp
.\" .It Sy list driveinfo Oo Fl d Ao DriveBayNumber Ac Oc Li "       "   Sy !!! under development !!!
.It Sy list driveinfo
.br
Lists relevant information about any disk drives associated with the targeted RAID device.
.Pp
.It Sy list eventinfo [-c n]
.br
Lists the last 100 event messages.  When provided, the optional 'count' argument, will limit the output to the last 'n' event messages (a value of 0 will display all event messsages).
.Pp
.\" .It Sy list raidsetinfo Oo Fl n Ao RAIDSet Ac Oc Li "            "   Sy !!! under development !!!
.It Sy list raidsetinfo
.br
Lists relevant information about any RAIDSet associated with the targeted RAID device.
.Pp
.It Sy list taskinfo
.br
Lists relevant information about any tasks associated with the targeted RAID device.
.Pp
.\" .It Sy list volumeinfo Oo Fl n Ao VolumeName Ac Oc Li "          "   Sy !!! under development !!!
.It Sy list volumeinfo
.br
Lists relevant information about any volumes associated with the targeted RAID device.
.Pp
.It Sy list versioninfo
.br
List version information about the targeted RAID device.
.Pp
.It Sy modify controller Bo arguments listed below Bc
.br
This will allow the user to modify specific attributes of the targeted controller.
.br
--writeCacheBattery
.br
--WriteCacheEnable
.br
.Pp
.It Sy modify drive Bo arguments listed below Bc
.br
This will allow the user to modify specific attributes of the targeted drive.
.br
--addglobalspare -d <DriveBayNumber> [-Y | -N]
.br
--removeglobalspare -d <DriveBayNumber>
.br
--addlocalspare -d <DriveBayNumber> -r <RAIDSet> [-Y | -N]
.br
--removelocalspare -d <DriveBayNumber>
.\" .br
.\" --drop -d <DriveBayNumber>
.\" .br
.\" --resetdrop -d <DriveBayNumber>
.br
--adopt -d <DriveBayNumber>
.br
.Pp
.It Sy modify raidset Bo arguments listed below Bc
.br
This will allow the user to modify specific attributes of the targeted RAIDSet.
.br
--addcapacity -n <RAIDSet> -d <ListOfDrives> [-Y | -N] [-W]
.br
--addmirror -n <RAIDSet> -d <ListOfDrives> [-Y | -N] [-W]
.br
--migratetoraid5 -n <RAIDSet> -d <ListOfDrives> [-Y | -N] [-W]
.br
--verify -n <RAIDSet> -p <ServicePriority> [-W]
.Pp
.It Sy modify volume Bo arguments listed below Bc
.br
This will allow the user to modify specific attributes of the targeted volume.
.br
--expand -n <VolumeName> [-r <RAIDSet>] -s <SizeToAdd> [-W]
.br
--move -n <ListOfVolumes> -r <SourceRAIDSet> -t <TargetRAIDSet> [-W]
.br
--rewrite -n <VolumeName>  [-r <RAIDSet>] -p <ServicePriority> [-W]
.br
--verify -n <VolumeName>  [-r <RAIDSet>] -p <ServicePriority> [-W]
.Pp
.Sy NOTE:
Valid values for <ServicePriority> are:  low, medium, high.
.\" .Pp
.\" .It Sy save controllerlog Ar -f <LocalFileName>
.\" .br
.\" Capture a log file from the targeted RAID device, and save it to a local file.
.\" 
.\" 
.\" .Pp
.\" .It Sy view controllerinfo
.\" .br
.\" List internal registry information about the controller(s) on the targeted RAID device.
.\" In-depth information is provided when the -v (verbose) global option has been specified.
.\" .Pp
.\" .It Sy view coprocessorinfo
.\" .br
.\" List internal registry information about the coprocessor(s) on the targeted RAID device.
.\" In-depth information is provided when the -v (verbose) global option has been specified.
.\" .Pp
.\" .It Sy view driveinfo Op --drives <ListOfDriveBays> | -d <ListOfDriveBays>
.\" .br
.\" List internal registry information about the disk drives on the targeted RAID device.  A specific drive may be specified by bay number.
.\" In-depth information is provided when the -v (verbose) global option has been specified.
.\" .Pp
.\" .It Sy view raidsetinfo Op -n <RAIDSet>
.\" .br
.\" List internal registry information about the RAIDSet on the targeted RAID device. A specific RAIDSet may be specified by name.
.\" In-depth information is provided when the -v (verbose) global option has been specified.
.\" .Pp
.\" .It Sy view volumeinfo Op -n <Name>
.\" .br
.\" List internal registry information about the volumes on the targeted RAID device. A specific volume may be specified by name.
.\" In-depth information is provided when the -v (verbose) global option has been specified.
.\" .Pp
.\" .It Sy view hostinfo
.\" .br
.\" Information from the
.\" .Qq hostinfo
.\" section of the registry.
.\" In-depth information, related to LUN mapping, is provided when the -v (verbose) global option has been specified.
.\" .Pp
.\" .It Sy view systeminfo
.\" .br
.\" An overview of the internal registry information.  Dumps all information contained in the registry when
.\" the -v (verbose) global option has been specified.
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Pp
.\"
.\"
.\"
.Sh EXAMPLES             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Begins a tagged list 
.It raidutil create raidset -n set2 -d 1,2 -r J+
.br
This creates a RAIDSet named
.Qq set2 ,
using the drives in bays one and two, with a raid level of
.Qq Enhanced JBOD.
.Pp
.It raidutil create volume -n volume1 -r set1 -s 1.5T
.br
This creates a volume named
.Qq volume1 ,
on the RAIDSet named
.Qq set1 .
The size of the volume will be 1.5
.Em tebibytes .
.Pp
.It raidutil modify volume -n volume1 --move -r set1 -t set2 --waitfortask
.br
This moves the volume named
.Qq volume1 ,
from the RAIDSet named
.Qq set1 .
to the  RAIDSet named
.Qq set2 .
The program will wait for the verification task to complete before proceeding.
.Pp
.It raidutil delete raidset -n setX
.br
This deletes a RAIDSet named
.Qq setX.
Any volumes associated with this RAIDSet will also be destroyed.
.Pp
.It raidutil delete raidset -n setX --force
.br
Regardless of whether there are any mounted file systems associated with this
group, this command deletes a RAIDSet named
.Qq setX.
Any volumes associated with this group will also be destroyed.
.Pp
.It raidutil delete volume -n myVolume
.br
This deletes a volume named
.Qq myVolume.
.Pp
.It raidutil delete volume -n myVolume -r BigRAIDSet
.br
This specifically deletes a volume named
.Qq myVolume,
that exists on the RAIDSet named BigRAIDSet.
.Pp
.It raidutil delete volume -n myVolume:BigRAIDSet
.br
This specifically deletes a volume named
.Qq myVolume,
that exists on the group named BigRAIDSet.
Make note that this example uses a method of overloading the volume name with the
group name in order to specify the group.
.Pp
.It raidutil list devices
.br
This will print out a list of all known RAID devices.
.Pp
.It raidutil list version
.br
This will print out version information for the RAID device.
.\" .Pp
.\" .It raidutil view systeminfo
.\" .br
.\" This will print out an overview of information pertaining to default RAID device, including information about
.\" the drives, drivegroups, and volumes that exist on it.
.\" .Pp
.\" .It raidutil -v view systeminfo
.\" .br
.\" With the -v (verbose) flag, this will print out detailed report of information pertaining to default RAID device,
.\" including information about the drives, drivegroups, and volumes that exist on it.
.Pp
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Pp                      \" Inserts a space
.\"
.\"
.\"
.Sh COMPATIBILITY
.Ss RAID Levels
When creating a RAID set the user must specify the type of RAID set that they wish to create through the raidlevel argument.
Valid RAID levels are as follows:
.Pp
.Dl J+	Enhanced JBOD
.Pp
.Dl 0	RAID 0 (striping)
.Pp
.Dl 1	RAID 1 (mirroring)
.Pp
.Dl 0+1 RAID 0+1 (mirroring a striped pair)
.Pp
.Dl 5	RAID 5 (striping with distributed parity)
.Pp
Using Enhanced JBOD, you can create a RAID set using a single drive. The resulting RAID set doesn’t gain the performance or data protection of the other RAID levels, but it does benefit from the data caching and battery backup provided by the RAID card. An enhanced JBOD set can also be migrated to other RAID sets or moved to another computer that has a Mac Pro or Xserve RAID Card installed.
.Pp
RAID 0 offers improved performance but no data protection. Blocks of data are spread across all of the drives in the RAID set in a process called striping. This allows better performance because file contents move in parallel to and from the individual drives in the set. RAID 0 also provides the most usable disk space; nearly all space on all drives is available for user data. You can create a RAID 0 set using two, three, or four disks.
.Pp
RAID 1 protects data against a drive failure and allows some increase in read performance. Data is protected by duplicating the contents of each drive on a second drive in the set, a process called mirroring. Because of the duplication, a volume based on a RAID 1 can’t be larger than half of the total space available on the drives in the set. You can create a RAID 1 set using either two or four disks.
.Pp
RAID 0+1 combines the performance of RAID 0 with the data protection of RAID 1 by mirroring a striped set on a second pair of drives. Because mirroring duplicates all data, this level offers less usable disk space than RAID 5. Usable space is half of the total space available on the drives in the set. You need four disks to create a RAID 0+1 set.
.Pp
RAID 5 is a compromise between the performance of RAID 0 and the data protection of RAID 1. Performance is improved by striping data across the drives in the set. Data protection is provided by parity information that is distributed across the drives. Data can be recovered if any single drive fails. RAID 5 leaves you with more usable space than RAID 1. RAID 5 needs only the equivalent of one drive’s worth of disk space to store the parity information. You can create a RAID 5 set using either three or four disks.
.Ss Specifying volumes
When performing certain actions, it may be desirable to explicitly specify the group that a volume is built upon.  For example, when
removing a volume, one might want to specify the associated group for clarity.  In these cases, an optional argument is generally available
for this purpose.  An example of this is:
.Pp
.Dl # raidutil delete volume -n myVolume -r theBigRAIDSet
.Pp
A shortcut exists whereby the RAIDSet may be specified as a suffix to the volume name.  For example, this is equivelent to the previous command:
.Pp
.Dl # raidutil delete volume -n myVolume:theBigRAIDSet
.Pp
The RAIDSet name is simply added to the volume name using the colon character as a separator.  This shortcut is supported by all of the
.Qq modify volume
actions.
.\" actions, including the --move action which takes a list of volumes.
.\" For example, the following two commands are equivelent:
.\" .Pp
.\" .Dl # raidutil modify volume --move -n Volume1,Volume2,Volume3 -r theBigRAIDSet -t theNewRAIDSet
.\" .Pp
.\" .Dl # raidutil modify volume --move -n Volume1,Volume2,Volume3:theBigRAIDSet -t theNewRAIDSet
.\" .Pp
.\" In both of these cases, the volumes
.\" .Qq Volume1,
.\" .Qq Volume2,
.\" and
.\" .Qq Volume3,
.\" will be moved from a RAIDSet named
.\" .Qq theBigRAIDSet,
.\" to a group named
.\" .Qq theNewGroup.  Take note that the RAIDSet name suffix must follow the last volume name in the list.  All volumes are assumed to reside upon the same RAIDSet.
.Ss Specifying Sizes
When specifying data that indicates a numeric size, the value will be assumed to be expressed in megabytes (MB) unless otherwise indicated.
.Pp
For our purposes, we will treat all size units as 1000 based numbers.
.Pp
Values may be expressed in bytes by ending the value with the letter
.Qq B .
.Pp
Other units for measure storage space follow suit, as shown by the following table:
.Pp
.br
.Bl -column -offset indent "petabyte (PB) 2^50 = 1000 * 1000 * 1000 * 1000 * 1000 bytes"
.It Li kilobyte (KB) 2^10 = 1000 bytes
.br
.It Li megabyte (MB) 2^20 = 1000 * 1000 bytes
.br
.It Li gigabyte (GB) 2^30 = 1000 * 1000 * 1000 bytes
.br
.It Li terabyte (TB) 2^40 = 1000 * 1000 * 1000 * 1000 bytes
.br
.It Li petabyte (PB) 2^50 = 1000 * 1000 * 1000 * 1000 * 1000 bytes
.El
.Pp
For the purposes of entering size information to this program, the default units are mebibytes (MiB).  This program will
support values expressed in the following units.  Acceptable abbreviations are listed after the name:
.Pp
.br
.Bl -column -offset indent ".Li kilobyte" Ta ".Li ---" Ta ".Li kilbotye (KB) 2^10"
.It Li one byte = 1B\ \ \  Ta --- Ta B
.br
.It Li kilobyte = 1000B Ta --- Ta K, KB
.br
.It Li megabyte = 1000K Ta --- Ta M, MB
.br
.It Li gigabyte = 1000M Ta --- Ta G, GB
.br
.It Li terabyte = 1000G Ta --- Ta T, TB
.br
.It Li petabyte = 1000T Ta --- Ta P, PB
.El
.Pp
For example, each of
the following commands will all create a volume named
.Qq theVolume
with a size of 600
.Em megabytes ,
on the RAIDSet named
.Qq RAIDSet :
.Pp
.Dl # raidutil create volume -n theVolume -s 600000K -r RAIDSet-A
.br
.Pp
.Dl # raidutil create volume -n theVolume -s 600 -r RAIDSet
.br
.Pp
.Dl # raidutil create volume -n theVolume -s 600M -r RAIDSet
.br
.Pp
.Dl # raidutil create volume -n theVolume -s 0.6GB -r RAIDSet
.br
.Pp
.Dl # raidutil create volume -n theVolume -s 0.0006TB -r RAIDSet
.br
.Pp
.Dl # raidutil create volume -n theVolume -s 0.0000006P -r RAIDSet
.br
.Pp
.Ss Special Size Values For Creating Volumes
In place of a numeric value, the user may provide the word
.Ar "all".
When this is done the program will attempt to use the maximum
valid value.  For example, the following command would create a  volume
named
.Qq BigVolume ,
on the RAIDSet named
.Qq BigRAIDSet ,
using
.Ar all available space
on that RAIDSet:
.Pp
.Dl # raidutil create volume -n BigVolume -s all -r BigRAIDSet
.br
.Pp
Similarly, the user may provide a value that indicates a percentage of
.Ar available
space.  This
is done by providing a numeric value between 1 and 100 that is followed by the
.Ql %
character.
For example, the following command would create a  volume
named
.Qq BigVolume ,
on the RAIDSet named
.Qq BigRAIDSet ,
using
.Ar all available space
on that RAIDSet:
.Pp
.Dl # raidutil create volume -n BigVolume -s 100% -r BigRAIDSet
.br
.Pp
The following command would create a  volume
named
.Qq MyVolume ,
on the RAIDSet named
.Qq MyRAIDSet ,
using
.Ar one fifth of all available space
on that RAIDSet:
.Pp
.Dl # raidutil create volume -n MyVolume -s 20% -r MyRAIDSet
.br
.Pp
It should be noted that, all percentage values are rounded down to the nearest whole number.  Thus,
33.333% becomes 33%, and 17.9321% becomes 17%.  Computed values are based on the RAIDSet available
capacity attribute.
.br
.Pp
NOTE:  The use of mebibyte and related units is strongly endorsed by IEC, IEEE and CIPM.
The mebibyte and related units are defined in the IEC document
.Ar IEC 60027-1 .
.\"
.\"
.\"
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.\" .Sh JUNK             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.\" 
.\" .Pp                      \" Inserts a space
.\" .Pp                      \" Inserts a space
.\" .Ar underlined text .
.\" .Pp                      \" Inserts a space
.\" A list of items with descriptions:
.\" .Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Begins a tagged list 
.\" .It item a               \" Each item preceded by .It macro
.\" Description of item a
.\" .It item b
.\" Description of item b
.\" .El                      \" Ends the list
.\" .Pp
.\" A list of flags and their descriptions:
.\" .Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Differs from above in tag removed 
.\" .It Fl a                 \"-a flag as a list item
.\" Description of -a flag
.\" .It Fl b
.\" Description of -b flag
.\" .El                      \" Ends the list
.\" .Pp
.\" 
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT      \" May not be needed
.\" .Bl -tag -width "ENV_VAR_1" -indent \" ENV_VAR_1 is width of the string ENV_VAR_1
.\" .It Ev ENV_VAR_1
.\" Description of ENV_VAR_1
.\" .It Ev ENV_VAR_2
.\" Description of ENV_VAR_2
.\" .El                      
.\" .Sh FILES                \" File used or created by the topic of the man page
.\" .Bl -tag -width "/Users/joeuser/Library/really_long_file_name" -compact
.\" .It Pa /usr/share/file_name
.\" FILE_1 description
.\" .It Pa /Users/joeuser/Library/really_long_file_name
.\" FILE_2 description
.\" .El                      \" Ends the list
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS       \" May not be needed
.\" .Bl -diag
.\" .It Diagnostic Tag
.\" Diagnostic informtion here.
.\" .It Diagnostic Tag
.\" Diagnostic informtion here.
.\" .El
.\"
.\"
.\"
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.\" List links in ascending order by section, alphabetically within a section.
.\" Please do not reference files that do not exist without filing a bug report
.Xr diskutil 8 , 
.Xr hdid 8 ,
.Xr hdiutil 1 ,
.Xr ufs.util 8 ,
.Xr msdos.util 8 ,
.Xr hfs.util 8 ,
.Xr drutil 1 ,
.Xr diskarbitrationd 8 
.\" .Sh BUGS              \" Document known, unremedied bugs 
.\" .Sh HISTORY           \" Document history if command behaves in a unique manner