.TH SKYWALKCTL 8 "August 31, 2016"
.SH NAME
skywalkctl \- Interact with Skywalk subsystem
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBskywalkctl\fP [ -f \fIOUTFILE\fP ] <command> [ <args> ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBskywalkctl\fP is a utility used to interact with the
Skywalk subsystem, which provides the plumbing between
various networking-related pieces of software and hardware.
It should only be used in a test and debug context. Using
it for any other purpose is strongly discouraged.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-f\fP \fIOUTFILE\fP
Redirect output to the file specified by \fIOUTFILE\fP,
instead of stdout.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
\fCtree\fR [ \fIROOT-UUID\fP ]
Output JSON representing a tree of all current Skywalk
objects. If provided, the tree will start at \fIROOT-UUID\fP
instead of the global root.
.TP
\fCchannel-stats\fR [ --interval, -I \fIinterval\fP ]
Display performance and error statistics for all currently
registered Skywalk channels.
.RS
.TP
\fB-I\fP \fIinterval\fP
Re-print channel statistics with a period of \fIinterval\fP
seconds, until the SIGINT signal is received.
.RE
.TP
\fClist-providers\fR [ --details, -D ]
Print a human-readable table of Skywalk nexus providers
and their child instances
.RS
.TP
\fB-D\fP
Provide more details about each provider
.RE
.TP
\fCnetns\fR [ -a ] | [ -i, --ip \fIIP\fP -p, --proto \fIPROTO\fP ]
Print information about L4 port reservations for the given
<\fIIP\fP, \fIPROTO\fP> where \fIIP\fP is either an IPv4/v6 address
or 'global', and \fIPROTO\fP is the common name for a
transportation-layer protocol ('tcp' or 'udp').
.RS
.TP
\fB-a\fP
ignore any other specifiers and list the contents of every namespace,
one after another
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
netstat(1), lsof(8)
