'\" te  
'\"macro stdmacro
.ds Vn Version 1.2
.ds Dt 24 September 1999
.ds Re Release 1.2.1
.ds Dp May 22 14:45
.ds Dm 6 May 22 14:
.ds Xs 31502     6
.TH GLINTERLEAVEDARRAYS 3G
.SH NAME
.B "glInterleavedArrays
\- simultaneously specify and enable several interleaved arrays

.SH C SPECIFICATION
void \f3glInterleavedArrays\fP(
GLenum \fIformat\fP,
.nf
.ta \w'\f3void \fPglInterleavedArrays( 'u
	GLsizei \fIstride\fP,
	const GLvoid \fI*pointer\fP )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP \w'\fIpointer\fP\ \ 'u 
\f2format\fP
Specifies the type of array to enable. Symbolic constants
\%\f3GL_V2F\fP,
\%\f3GL_V3F\fP,
\%\f3GL_C4UB_V2F\fP,
\%\f3GL_C4UB_V3F\fP,
\%\f3GL_C3F_V3F\fP,
\%\f3GL_N3F_V3F\fP,
\%\f3GL_C4F_N3F_V3F\fP,
\%\f3GL_T2F_V3F\fP,
\%\f3GL_T4F_V4F\fP,
\%\f3GL_T2F_C4UB_V3F\fP,
\%\f3GL_T2F_C3F_V3F\fP,
\%\f3GL_T2F_N3F_V3F\fP,
\%\f3GL_T2F_C4F_N3F_V3F\fP,
and
\%\f3GL_T4F_C4F_N3F_V4F\fP
are accepted. 
.TP
\f2stride\fP 
Specifies the offset in bytes between each aggregate array element.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\%\f3glInterleavedArrays\fP lets you specify and enable individual color, 
normal, 
texture and vertex
arrays whose elements are part of a larger aggregate array element.
For some implementations, this is more efficient than specifying the arrays
separately. 
.P
If \f2stride\fP is 0, the aggregate elements are stored consecutively.
Otherwise, \f2stride\fP bytes occur between the beginning of one
aggregate array element and the beginning of the next aggregate array
element.
.P
\f2format\fP serves as a ``key''
describing the extraction of individual arrays from the aggregate array.
If \f2format\fP contains a T, then texture coordinates are 
extracted from the interleaved array.  If C is present, color values
are extracted. If N is present, normal coordinates are extracted.
Vertex coordinates are always extracted.
.P
The digits 2, 3, and 4 denote how many values are extracted.
F indicates that values are extracted as floating-point values.
Colors may also be extracted as 4 unsigned bytes if 4UB follows the
C.  If a color is extracted as 4 unsigned bytes, the vertex 
array element which follows is located at the first possible 
floating-point aligned address.
.SH NOTES
\%\f3glInterleavedArrays\fP is available only if the GL version is 1.1 or greater.
.P
If \%\f3glInterleavedArrays\fP is called while compiling a display list, it is not
compiled into the list, and it is executed immediately.
.P
Execution of \%\f3glInterleavedArrays\fP is not allowed between the execution of
\%\f3glBegin\fP and the corresponding execution of \%\f3glEnd\fP,
but an error may or may not be generated. If no error is generated,
the operation is undefined.
.P
\%\f3glInterleavedArrays\fP is typically implemented on the client side.
.P
Vertex array parameters are client-side state and are therefore not
saved or restored by \%\f3glPushAttrib\fP and \%\f3glPopAttrib\fP.
Use \%\f3glPushClientAttrib\fP and \%\f3glPopClientAttrib\fP instead.
.P
When the \%\f3GL_ARB_multitexture\fP extension is supported, \%\f3glInterleavedArrays\fP
only updates the texture coordinate array for the active active texture
unit. The texture coordinate state for other client texture units is not 
update, regardless if they are enabled or not.
.SH ERRORS
\%\f3GL_INVALID_ENUM\fP is generated if \f2format\fP is not an accepted value.
.P
\%\f3GL_INVALID_VALUE\fP is generated if \f2stride\fP is negative.
.SH SEE ALSO 
\%\f3glArrayElement\fP,
\%\f3glClientActiveTextureARB\fP,
\%\f3glColorPointer\fP,
\%\f3glDrawArrays\fP,
\%\f3glDrawElements\fP,
\%\f3glEdgeFlagPointer\fP,
\%\f3glEnableClientState\fP,
\%\f3glGetPointer\fP,
\%\f3glIndexPointer\fP,
\%\f3glNormalPointer\fP,
\%\f3glTexCoordPointer\fP,
\%\f3glVertexPointer\fP
