'\" e  
'\"macro stdmacro
.ds Vn Version 1.2
.ds Dt 6 March 1997
.ds Re Release 1.2.0
.ds Dp May 22 14:54
.ds Dm 5 May 22 14:
.ds Xs 21974     4
.TH GLUPROJECT 3G
.SH NAME
.B "gluProject
\- map object coordinates to window coordinates

.SH C SPECIFICATION
GLint \f3gluProject\fP(
GLdouble \fIobjX\fP,
.nf
.ta \w'\f3GLint \fPgluProject( 'u
	GLdouble \fIobjY\fP,
	GLdouble \fIobjZ\fP,
	const GLdouble \fI*model\fP,
	const GLdouble \fI*proj\fP,
	const GLint \fI*view\fP,
	GLdouble* \fIwinX\fP,
	GLdouble* \fIwinY\fP,
	GLdouble* \fIwinZ\fP )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP \w'\f2objX\fP\ \f2objY\fP\ \f2objZ\fP\ \ 'u 
\f2objX\fP, \f2objY\fP, \f2objZ\fP
Specify the object coordinates.
.TP
\f2model\fP
Specifies the current modelview matrix (as from a \f3glGetDoublev\fP call).
.TP
\f2proj\fP
Specifies the current projection matrix (as from a \f3glGetDoublev\fP call).
.TP
\f2view\fP
Specifies the current viewport (as from a \f3glGetIntegerv\fP call).
.TP
\f2winX\fP, \f2winY\fP, \f2winZ\fP
Return the computed window coordinates.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\%\f3gluProject\fP transforms the specified object coordinates into window coordinates
using \f2model\fP, \f2proj\fP, and \f2view\fP. The result is stored 
in \f2winX\fP, \f2winY\fP, and \f2winZ\fP. A return value of 
\%\f3GL_TRUE\fP indicates success, a return value of \%\f3GL_FALSE\fP
indicates failure.
.P
To compute the coordinates,
let v = (objX, objY, objZ, 1.0)
represented as a matrix with 4 rows and 1 column.
Then \%\f3gluProject\fP computes v'
as follows: 

.ce
v' = P X M X v

where P is the current projection matrix \f2proj\fP, M is the current
modelview matrix \f2model\fP (both represented as
4x4 matrices in column-major order) 'X' represents
matrix multiplication. 
.P 
The window coordinates are then computed as follows: 

winX = view(0) + view(2) * (v'(0)+1)/2

winY = view(1) + view(3) * (v'(1)+1)/2

winZ = (v'(2) + 1) / 2

.sp
.SH SEE ALSO
\f3glGet\fP, \%\f3gluUnProject\fP

