.\" Copyright (c) 2015 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" The contents of this file constitute Original Code as defined in and
.\" are subject to the Apple Public Source License Version 1.1 (the
.\" "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the
.\" License.  Please obtain a copy of the License at
.\" http://www.apple.com/publicsource and read it before using this file.
.\" 
.\" This Original Code and all software distributed under the License are
.\" distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AND APPLE HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL SUCH WARRANTIES,
.\" INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.  Please see the
.\" License for the specific language governing rights and limitations
.\" under the License.
.\" 
.
.Dd December 22, 2015
.Dt sysdir 3
.Os Darwin
.
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm sysdir_start_search_path_enumeration , sysdir_get_next_search_path_enumeration
.Nd Enumeration of the filesystem paths for the various standard system directories where apps,
resources, etc. get installed.
.
.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd #include <sysdir.h>
.Pp
.Ft sysdir_search_path_enumeration_state
.Fo sysdir_start_search_path_enumeration
.Fa "sysdir_search_path_directory_t dir"
.Fa "sysdir_search_path_domain_mask_t domainMask"
.Fc
.Pp
.Ft sysdir_search_path_enumeration_state
.Fo sysdir_get_next_search_path_enumeration
.Fa "sysdir_search_path_enumeration_state state"
.Fa "char *path"
.Fc
.
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm sysdir
API returns the various standard system directories where apps, resources,
etc. get installed. Because queries can return multiple directories, the API is
in the form of an enumeration. The directories are returned in search path
order: that is, the first place to look is returned first.
.Pp
.Fn sysdir_start_search_path_enumeration
begins enumeration of the filesystem paths for the specified directory and domain(s).
The return value should be passed to one or more calls to
.Fn sysdir_get_next_search_path_enumeration
to obtain the filesystem path and continue the enumeration.
.Pp
.Fn sysdir_get_next_search_path_enumeration
returns a filesystem path for the directory and domain(s) specified by the state value returned by
.Fn sysdir_start_search_path_enumeration .
Subsequent calls to
.Fn sysdir_get_next_search_path_enumeration
should pass the state value returned by the previous call to continue the
enumeration in each domain. A state value of zero will be returned when all
domains have been enumerated.
.Pp
The path buffer that is passed to
.Fn sysdir_get_next_search_path_enumeration
will be filled with a null-terminated
string, possibly containing as many as PATH_MAX-1 characters.
.Pp
Some directory paths returned may not exist on the filesystem.
.Pp
Some combinations of
.Fa dir
and
.Fa domainMask
may return no directory paths.
.Pp
Directory paths returned in the user domain will contain "~" to refer to the user's directory.
.Pp
The environment variable
.Ev NEXT_ROOT
is prepended as necessary to the returned directory paths.
.Ev NEXT_ROOT
is ignored if the process is setuid or is code signed with entitlements.
.Pp
.
.
.Sh DIRECTORY CONSTANTS
The following
.Fa sysdir_search_path_directory
constants are defined:
.
.Bl -tag -width 1234567890123456789012345678901
.
.It SYSDIR_DIRECTORY_APPLICATION
Supported applications (Applications)
.It SYSDIR_DIRECTORY_DEMO_APPLICATION
Unsupported applications and demonstration versions (Applications/Demos)
.It SYSDIR_DIRECTORY_DEVELOPER_APPLICATION
Developer applications (Developer/Applications)
Deprecated: As of Xcode 4.3, there is no longer a Developer Application directory directory;
instead, Xcode.app is a self-contained application that gets installed in the user's
Applications directory, by default, although it can be put anywhere.
.It SYSDIR_DIRECTORY_ADMIN_APPLICATION
System and network administration applications (Applications/Utilities)
.It SYSDIR_DIRECTORY_LIBRARY
Various user-visible documentation, support, and configuration files, resources (Library)
.It SYSDIR_DIRECTORY_DEVELOPER
Developer resources (Developer)
Deprecated: As of Xcode 4.3, there is no longer a Developer directory; instead, Xcode.app
is a self-contained application that gets installed in the user's Applications directory,
by default, although it can be put anywhere.
.It SYSDIR_DIRECTORY_USER
User home directories (Users)
.It SYSDIR_DIRECTORY_DOCUMENTATION
Location of documentation (Library/Documentation)
.It SYSDIR_DIRECTORY_DOCUMENT
Location of documents (Documents)
.It SYSDIR_DIRECTORY_CORESERVICE
Location of core services (Library/CoreServices)
.It SYSDIR_DIRECTORY_AUTOSAVED_INFORMATION
Location of user's autosaved documents (Library/Autosave Information)
.It SYSDIR_DIRECTORY_DESKTOP
Location of user's desktop directory (Desktop)
.It SYSDIR_DIRECTORY_CACHES
Location of discardable cache files (Library/Caches)
.It SYSDIR_DIRECTORY_APPLICATION_SUPPORT
Location of application support files (Library/Application Support)
.It SYSDIR_DIRECTORY_DOWNLOADS
Location of user's downloads directory (Downloads)
.It SYSDIR_DIRECTORY_INPUT_METHODS
Location of input methods (Library/Input Methods)
.It SYSDIR_DIRECTORY_MOVIES
Location of user's Movies directory (Movies)
.It SYSDIR_DIRECTORY_MUSIC
Location of user's Music directory (Music)
.It SYSDIR_DIRECTORY_PICTURES
Location of user's Pictures directory (Pictures)
.It SYSDIR_DIRECTORY_PRINTER_DESCRIPTION
Location of system's PPDs directory (Library/Printers/PPDs)
.It SYSDIR_DIRECTORY_SHARED_PUBLIC
Location of user's Public sharing directory (Public)
.It SYSDIR_DIRECTORY_PREFERENCE_PANES
Location of the PreferencePanes directory for use with System Preferences (Library/PreferencePanes)
.It SYSDIR_DIRECTORY_ALL_APPLICATIONS
All directories where applications can occur (/Applications, ~/Applications, /Applications/Utilities, etc)
.It SYSDIR_DIRECTORY_ALL_LIBRARIES
All directories where resources can occur (/Library, ~/Library, /Network/Library, etc)
.
.El
.
.
.Sh DOMAIN CONSTANTS
The following
.Fa sysdir_search_path_domain_mask
constants are defined:
.
.Bl -tag -width 1234567890123456789012345678901
.
.It SYSDIR_DOMAIN_MASK_USER
The user's home directory -- the place to install user's personal items (~)
.It SYSDIR_DOMAIN_MASK_LOCAL
Local to the current machine -- the place to install items available to everyone on this machine
.It SYSDIR_DOMAIN_MASK_NETWORK
Publically available location in the local area network -- the place to install items available on the network
.It SYSDIR_DOMAIN_MASK_SYSTEM
Provided by Apple -- can't be modified
.It SYSDIR_DOMAIN_MASK_ALL
All domains -- all of the above and future domains
.
.El
.Pp
.
.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variable affects the execution of
.Nm sysdir_get_next_search_path_enumeration :
.Bl -tag -width NEXT_ROOT
.It Ev NEXT_ROOT
If the
.Ev NEXT_ROOT
environment variable is set and the current process is not tainted by uid or gid changes,
.Ev NEXT_ROOT
is prepended as necessary to the returned directory paths.
.Ev NEXT_ROOT
is ignored if the process is setuid or is code signed with entitlements.
.El
.
.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal
#include <limits.h>
#include <sysdir.h>

char path[PATH_MAX];
sysdir_search_path_enumeration_state state = sysdir_start_search_path_enumeration(dir, domainMask);
while ( (state = sysdir_get_next_search_path_enumeration(state, path)) != 0 ) {
    // Handle directory path
}
.Ed
.
.
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm sysdir
API first appeared in OS X 10.12, iOS 10, watchOS 3 and tvOS 10 replacing the deprecated
.Xr NSSystemDirectories 3
API.
