.\" Copyright (c) 2011, 2016 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.
.Dd 1 July, 2011
.Dt xpc_objects 3
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME
.Nm xpc_objects
.Nd boxed XPC objects reference
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd #include <xpc/xpc.h>
.Ft xpc_object_t
.Fo xpc_null_create
.Fa "void"
.Fc
.Ft xpc_object_t
.Fo xpc_bool_create
.Fa "bool value"
.Fc
.Ft bool
.Fo xpc_bool_get_value
.Fa "xpc_object_t xbool"
.Fc
.Ft xpc_object_t
.Fo xpc_int64_create
.Fa "int64_t value"
.Fc
.Ft int64_t
.Fo xpc_int64_get_value
.Fa "xpc_object_t xint"
.Fc
.Ft xpc_object_t
.Fo xpc_uint64_create
.Fa "uint64_t value"
.Fc
.Ft uint64_t
.Fo xpc_uint64_get_value
.Fa "xpc_object_t xuint"
.Fc
.Ft xpc_object_t
.Fo xpc_double_create
.Fa "double value"
.Fc
.Ft double
.Fo xpc_double_get_value
.Fa "xpc_object_t xdouble"
.Fc
.Ft xpc_object_t
.Fo xpc_date_create
.Fa "int64_t interval"
.Fc
.Ft xpc_object_t
.Fo xpc_date_create_from_current
.Fa "void"
.Fc
.Ft int64_t
.Fo xpc_date_get_value
.Fa "xpc_object_t xdate"
.Fc
.Ft xpc_object_t
.Fo xpc_data_create
.Fa "const void *bytes"
.Fa "size_t length"
.Fc
.Ft xpc_object_t
.Fo xpc_data_create_with_dispatch_data
.Fa "dispatch_data_t ddata"
.Fc
.Ft size_t
.Fo xpc_data_get_length
.Fa "xpc_object_t xdata"
.Fc
.Ft const void *
.Fo xpc_data_get_bytes_ptr
.Fa "xpc_object_t xdata"
.Fc
.Ft size_t
.Fo xpc_data_get_bytes
.Fa "xpc_object_t xdata"
.Fa "void *buffer"
.Fa "size_t off"
.Fa "size_t length"
.Fc
.Ft xpc_object_t
.Fo xpc_string_create
.Fa "const char *string"
.Fc
.Ft xpc_object_t
.Fo xpc_string_create_with_format
.Fa "const char *fmt"
.Fa "..."
.Fc
.Ft xpc_object_t
.Fo xpc_string_create_with_format_and_arguments
.Fa "const char *fmt"
.Fa "va_list ap"
.Fc
.Ft size_t
.Fo xpc_string_get_length
.Fa "xpc_object_t xstring"
.Fc
.Ft const char *
.Fo xpc_string_get_string_ptr
.Fa "xpc_object_t xstring"
.Fc
.Ft xpc_object_t
.Fo xpc_uuid_create
.Fa "const uuid_t uuid"
.Fc
.Ft const uint8_t *
.Fo xpc_uuid_get_bytes
.Fa "xpc_object_t xuuid"
.Fc
.Ft xpc_object_t
.Fo xpc_fd_create
.Fa "int fd"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo xpc_fd_dup
.Fa "xpc_object_t xfd"
.Fc
.Ft xpc_object_t
.Fo xpc_shmem_create
.Fa "void *region"
.Fa "size_t length"
.Fc
.Ft size_t
.Fo xpc_shmem_map
.Fa "xpc_object_t xshmem"
.Fa "void **region"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Most XPC objects are boxed representations of primitive C language types or
low-level operating system handles. These boxed objects are immutable. In
general, the getter methods for each object type will check to see if the given
object is of the proper type and, if it is not, will return a sensible default
value as described in
.Xr xpc_object 3 .
If an improper object is given to another type of method, the behavior is
undefined.
.Pp
See
.Xr xpc_object 3
for information about functions common to all XPC objects.
.Pp
.Sh PRIMITIVE TYPES
XPC objects can encapsulate a wide variety of primitive C language types:
.Ss INTEGERS
Boxed representations of 64-bit wide signed and unsigned integer types may be
created with
.Fn xpc_int64_create
and
.Fn xpc_uint64_create
respectively. The boxed values may be retrieved using
.Fn xpc_int64_get_value
and
.Fn xpc_uint64_get_value .
.Ss FLOATING POINT
Boxed representations of double-precision floating point value representations
may be created with the
.Fn xpc_double_create
function and retrieved with the
.Fn xpc_double_get_value
function.
.Ss DATES
Boxed representations of date and time values, expressed as an integral
number of nanoseconds before or after the Unix epoch, can be created with the
.Fn xpc_date_create
function and retrieved with the
.Fn xpc_date_get_value
function.
A date object representing the current date may be created with 
.Fn xpc_date_create_from_current
convenience function.
.Ss NULL AND BOOLEAN SINGLETONS
Boxed representations of null and Boolean values are expressed as XPC object
singletons. The 
.Fn xpc_bool_create
function returns one of two constant singleton Boolean values:
.Bl -bullet -compact -offset indent
.It
.Ft XPC_BOOL_TRUE
.It
.Ft XPC_BOOL_FALSE
.El
.Pp
The singleton values may be compared using direct pointer equality. Similarly,
no type checking is required when retreiving these values from collections:
.Pp
.Bd -literal -offset indent
xpc_object_t xbool = xpc_dictionary_get_value(dictionary, "key");
if (xbool == XPC_BOOL_TRUE) {
	// Handle the true case.
} else if (xbool == XPC_BOOL_FALSE)
	// Handle the false case.
} else {
	// Handle the case where there was a type mismatch or where there was no
	// value for the key "key".
}
.Ed
.Pp
The
.Fn xpc_null_create
function returns a constant singleton representation of a null value.
There is currently no defined constant for this singleton.
.Pp
It is safe to call
.Xr xpc_retain 3
and
.Xr xpc_release 3
on Boolean and null objects.
.Sh DATA, STRINGS AND UUIDS
.Ss DATA
Boxed representations of arbitrary byte values may be created with the
.Fn xpc_data_create
function which takes a pointer to a
.Fa buffer
and
.Fa length .
A pointer to the underlying storage of the data object may be obtained using
.Fn xpc_data_get_bytes_ptr .
.Pp
.Em Important :
This pointer is only valid for the lifetime of the data object. The underlying
storage of the pointer value must not be modified by the caller. When ARC is
enabled, care needs to be taken that the data object is not released
prematurely, see
.Xr xpc_object 3
for details.
.Pp
The contents of a data object may be copied to an external buffer using the
.Fn xpc_data_get_bytes
function. This function takes a pointer to a
.Fa buffer
of size
.Fa length
to which the data will be copied.
The caller may also specify a non-zero
.Fa offset
into the source data at which to start the copy. The return value of this
function is the number of bytes that were copied into the
.Fa buffer .
If the destination
.Fa buffer
is smaller than the size of the source data, as many bytes as possible will be
copied and the return value will be equal to the number of bytes specified in
.Fa length .
.Pp
The underlying size of the data value may be determined using the
.Fn xpc_data_get_length 
function.
.Pp
When creating a data object, the contents of the provided buffer are copied into
internal storage. If the caller wishes to avoid a copy, the buffer may first be
encapsulated in a
.Ft dispatch_data_t
object and passed to
.Fn xpc_data_create_with_dispatch_data .
See
.Xr dispatch_data_create 3
for more information.
.Pp
.Em Note :
When the time comes to send a message, the XPC runtime will serialize
the object graph, which will result in a copy of any data objects contained
therein. This can be very costly for large amounts of data. To completely avoid
any copying in the message-send path for large data objects (where "large" is
defined by the system), you may create a data object using
.Xr dispatch_data_create 3
with the
.Ft DISPATCH_DATA_DESTRUCTOR_MUNMAP
destructor specified. This will hint to the system that the data buffer may be
safely shared copy-on-write with the recipient of the message.
.Pp
.Em Important :
Data objects created with the intention of eliminating copies can
.Em only
be safely created VM objects that the caller owns. Buffers returned by
.Xr malloc 3
do NOT satisfy this condition as the caller does not own the underlying VM
object associated with an allocation returned by
.Xr malloc 3 .
Similarly, if the caller receives a buffer from an external subsystem across an
API boundary, this buffer is not owned by the caller unless part of the API
contract specifies how the buffer should have been created. Sending buffers not
owned by the caller in this way can result in information leakage from elsewhere
on the heap.
.Ss STRINGS
Boxed representations of C string values may be created using the
.Fn xpc_string_create
function.
The XPC framework assumes all strings are encoded as UTF-8 and does not
support any other encodings. A pointer to the C string representation of a
value may be obtained using
.Fn xpc_string_get_string_ptr .
.Pp
.Em Important :
This pointer is only valid for the lifetime of the string object. The underlying
storage of the pointer value must not be modified by the caller.  When ARC is
enabled, care needs to be taken that the string object is not released
prematurely, see
.Xr xpc_object 3
for details.
.Pp
The length of the C string value may be determined using the
.Fn xpc_string_get_length
function. This length does not include the NUL terminator character,
similar to
.Xr strlen 3 .
.Pp
String objects may also be constructed from
.Xr printf 3 -style
format strings using the
.Fn xpc_string_create_with_format
function.
Additionally, the
.Fn xpc_string_create_with_format_and_arguments
function allows the caller to pass an existing
.Ft va_list
argument with which to construct the formatted string.
.Ss UUIDs
Boxed representations of UUID byte values may be created using
.Fn xpc_uuid_create .
See
.Xr uuid 3
for more information.
A pointer to storage for the underlying UUID value may be obtained using
.Fn xpc_uuid_get_bytes .
The returned pointer may be safely passed to the relevant
.Xr uuid 3
functions.
.Pp
.Em Important :
This pointer is only valid for the lifetime of the UUID object. The underlying
storage of the UUID value must not be modified by the caller. When ARC is
enabled, care needs to be taken that the UUID object is not released
prematurely, see
.Xr xpc_object 3
for details.
.Pp
The pattern of returning a pointer instead of copying the result into a
.Ft uuid_t
enables some convenient code simplification. For example:
.Pp
.Bd -literal -offset indent
if (uuid_compare(xpc_uuid_get_bytes(uuid_object), expected_uuid) == 0) {
	// They are the same.
}
.Ed
.Sh OUT-OF-LINE TYPES
Boxed representations of low-level operating system primitives such as file
descriptors and shared memory regions may be created and shared between
processes as part of an XPC dictionary that is sent as a message.
.Ss FILE DESCRIPTORS
Boxed representations of file descriptors may be created using the
.Fn xpc_fd_create
function.
Once created, there is no way to retrieve the original file descriptor from
the boxed representation. This function performs the equivalent of a
.Xr dup 2
on the descriptor, and thus it is safe to call
.Xr close 2
on the descriptor after boxing it.
.Pp
The
.Fn xpc_fd_dup
function can be used to create a new file descriptor from a boxed representation
in a similar manner to
.Xr dup 2 .
The caller is responsible for calling
.Xr close 2
on the descriptor returned by
.Fn xpc_fd_dup .

Multiple calls to
.Fn xpc_fd_dup
will produce multiple unique file descriptor values.
If a failure occurs (i.e. process file descriptor table is full), the invalid
file descriptor value -1 will be returned.
.Pp
.Em Important :
When file descriptors are copied with
.Xr dup 2 ,
they share some state, including flags and
.Xr lseek 2
file offset. The same sharing obtains when these boxing and unboxing functions
create copies of file descriptors, and when a boxed representation of a
file descriptor is sent to another process using XPC.
.Pp
For example, suppose one process opens a file and sends the file descriptor to
another process. Then, the first process uses
.Xr read 2
to read the first 100 bytes from the file. If the second process then calls
.Xr read 2
on the descriptor that it received from the first process,
the data it reads will start at the 101st byte of the file, not the 1st.
.Pp
This is not usually the desired behavior.
.Pp
Therefore, if you wish to send a file to another process, it is best
not to box one shared file descriptor. Instead you should
.Xr open 2
the file afresh for each other process you wish to share with.
.Ss SHARED MEMORY
Boxed representations of shared memory regions allocated using
.Xr mmap 2
with the
.Ft MAP_SHARED
flag passed in the
.Fa flags
argument may be created using the 
.Fn xpc_shmem_create
function. Memory objects created using
.Xr malloc 3
are not supported.
The
.Fa region
argument is a pointer to the beginning of the shared region and the
.Fa length
argument specifies the length of the shared region.
.Pp
The recipient of a shared memory object may map the underlying region into its
address space using the
.Fn xpc_shmem_map
function.
As with file descriptor objects, each call to this function returns a distinct
but equivalent mapping. On output, the
.Fa region
argument will point to the address of the new mapping, and the return value will
be the size of that mapping. This size will always be an integral page size, as
it is not possible to share memory regions at less than page granularity. The
caller is responsible for unmapping the region
with
.Xr munmap 2 .
If the mapping operation failed, 0 will be returned.
.Pp
New mappings will be created with the maximum permission as specified by the
creator of the region. Currently, there is no direct way to modify the
permissions that the recipient of a region will have. If the caller wishes to
maintain read-write permissions to a region, for example, while giving others
read-only access, it can create an equivalent mapping with the desired 
permissions using a combination of
.Fn mach_make_memory_entry_64
and
.Fn mach_vm_remap .
The details of this procedure are left as an exercise to the reader.
.Pp
Certain operations that can operate on subranges of a region, such as
.Fn vm_copy ,
.Fn vm_read ,
and
.Fn vm_write ,
may fragment the underlying representation of a memory region in order to avoid
physical copies. After this fragmentation has occurred, it is not safe to create
a shared memory object out of the region. For this reason, it is recommended
that any such operations be delayed until after the shared memory object has
been created, as the existence of the object will hint to the VM that the
region's internal representation should be kept contiguous. Note that this will
necessarily defeat these optimizations and force physical copies of subranges.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr xpc_object 3 ,
.Xr xpc_dictionary_create 3 ,
.Xr xpc_array_create 3 ,
.Xr xpc_connection_create 3 ,
.Xr dispatch_data_create 3 ,
.Xr printf 3 ,
.Xr uuid 3 ,
.Xr dup 2 ,
.Xr close 2
