.\"
.\" (c) 2021 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" @APPLE_LICENSE_HEADER_START@
.\"
.\" The contents of this file constitute Original Code as defined in and
.\" are subject to the Apple Public Source License Version 1.1 (the
.\" "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the
.\" License.  Please obtain a copy of the License at
.\" http://www.apple.com/publicsource and read it before using this file.
.\"
.\" This Original Code and all software distributed under the License are
.\" distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AND APPLE HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL SUCH WARRANTIES,
.\" INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.  Please see the
.\" License for the specific language governing rights and limitations
.\" under the License.
.\"
.\" @APPLE_LICENSE_HEADER_END@
.\"
.Dd February 8, 2021
.Dt DIRS_CLEANER 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm dirs_cleaner
.Nd remove contents of directories
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ar path ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility recursively deletes the entire contents of each directory argument,
while the directories themselves are not deleted. A cleaned directory may be re-created in
the process of cleaning; if so, it gets a new inode number. Recursive traversals
do not cross mount points. Each directory is identified directly or via a symbolic link.
.Pp
The
.Nm
utility exits with one of the following values:
.Pp
0       Each input directory was successfully cleaned.
.Pp
>0      An error occurred.
