.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2002-2009 Apple Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms of pam_uwtmp, with
.\" or without modification, are permitted provided that the following
.\" conditions are met:
.\" 
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain any existing copyright
.\" notice, and this entire permission notice in its entirety,
.\" including the disclaimer of warranties.
.\" 
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce all prior and current
.\" copyright notices, this list of conditions, and the following
.\" disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
.\" with the distribution.
.\" 
.\" 3. The name of any author may not be used to endorse or promote
.\" products derived from this software without their specific prior
.\" written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR(S) BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING,
.\" BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS
.\" OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
.\" ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR
.\" TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE
.\" USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
.\" DAMAGE. 
.\"
.Dd February 7, 2009
.Dt pam_uwtmp 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm pam_uwtmp
.Nd User Accounting PAM module
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Op Ar service-name
.Ar function-class
.Ar control-flag
pam_uwtmp
.Op Ar options
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The User Accounting PAM module supports the session management function class.  In terms of the
.Ar function-class
parameter, this is the
.Dq Li session
class.
.Pp
The User Accounting session management module updates the system's user accounting database when a users logs in or out of the system.
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr pam.conf 5 ,
.Xr pam 8
.Xr utmpx 5
