.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" @APPLE_LICENSE_HEADER_START@
.\" 
.\" This file contains Original Code and/or Modifications of Original Code
.\" as defined in and that are subject to the Apple Public Source License
.\" Version 2.0 (the 'License'). You may not use this file except in
.\" compliance with the License. Please obtain a copy of the License at
.\" http://www.opensource.apple.com/apsl/ and read it before using this
.\" file.
.\" 
.\" The Original Code and all software distributed under the License are
.\" distributed on an 'AS IS' basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AND APPLE HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL SUCH WARRANTIES,
.\" INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, QUIET ENJOYMENT OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.
.\" Please see the License for the specific language governing rights and
.\" limitations under the License.
.\" 
.\" @APPLE_LICENSE_HEADER_END@
.\"
.Dd February 7, 2009
.Dt pam_mount 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm pam_mount
.Nd Home Folder Mounting PAM module
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Op Ar service-name
.Ar function-class
.Ar control-flag
pam_mount
.Op Ar options
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The Home Folder Mounting PAM module supports the authentication and session management function classes.  In terms of the
.Ar function-class
parameter, these are
.Dq Li auth
and
.Dq Li session
respectively.
.Ss The Home Folder Mounting Authentication Module
The Home Folder Mounting authentication module reads the mount authenticator from the PAM authentication context and caches it in the PAM environment.  The Home Folder Mounting Session Management Module must be used in conjunction with this module to remove the authenticator from the PAM environment. 
.Ss The Home Folder Mounting Session Management Module
The Home Folder Mounting session management module copies the mount authenticator from the PAM environment, removes it from the PAM environment, and uses its copy to mount the user's home folder if the user's OpenDirectory record indicates that an AFP, SMB, NFS or FileVault home folder is to be used.
.Pp
When the session is closed, the Home Folder Mounting session management module unmounts the user's home folder if it was mounted by this module when the session was opened.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr pam.conf 5 ,
.Xr pam 8 ,
.Xr DirectoryService 8
