.\"
.\" mime.convs man page for CUPS.
.\"
.\" Copyright © 2007-2019 by Apple Inc.
.\" Copyright © 1997-2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\" Licensed under Apache License v2.0.  See the file "LICENSE" for more
.\" information.
.\"
.TH mime.convs 5 "CUPS" "26 April 2019" "Apple Inc."
.SH NAME
mime.convs \- mime type conversion file for cups (deprecated)
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBmime.convs\fR file defines the filters that are available for converting files from one format to another.
The standard filters support text, PDF, PostScript, and many types of image files.
.LP
Additional filters are specified in files with the extension \fI.convs\fR in the CUPS configuration directory.
.LP
Each line in the \fBmime.convs\fR file is a comment, blank, or filter
line.
Comment lines start with the # character.
Filter lines specify the source and destination MIME types along with a relative cost associated with the filter and the filter to run:
.nf

    source/type destination/type cost filter

.fi
The \fIsource/type\fR field specifies the source MIME media type that is consumed by the filter.
.LP
The \fIdestination/type\fR field specifies the destination MIME media type that is produced by the filter.
.LP
The \fIcost\fR field specifies the relative cost for running the filter.
A value of 100 means that the filter uses a large amount of resources while a value of 0 means that the filter uses very few resources.
.LP
The \fIfilter\fR field specifies the filter program filename.
Filenames are relative to the CUPS filter directory.
.SH FILES
\fI/etc/cups\fR - Typical CUPS configuration directory.
.br
\fI/usr/lib/cups/filter\fR - Typical CUPS filter directory.
.br
\fI/usr/libexec/cups/filter\fR - CUPS filter directory on macOS.
.SH EXAMPLES
Define a filter that converts PostScript documents to CUPS Raster format:
.nf

    application/vnd.cups\-postscript application/vnd.cups\-raster 50 pstoraster

.fi
.SH NOTES
CUPS filters are deprecated and will no longer be supported in a future feature release of CUPS.
Printers that do not support IPP can be supported using applications such as
.BR ippeveprinter (1).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cups-files.conf (5),
.BR cupsd.conf (5),
.BR cupsd (8),
.BR cupsfilter (8),
.BR mime.types (5),
CUPS Online Help (http://localhost:631/help)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \[co] 2007-2019 by Apple Inc.
