.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.Dd Thu Oct 13 2004               \" DATE 
.Dt createhomedir 1      \" Program name and manual section number 
.Os "Mac OS X"             \" OS - 'Mac OS X' if it requires Mac OS X features else 'Darwin'
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm createhomedir
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line. 
.\" Use .Nm macro to designate other names for the documented program.
.Nd create and populate home directories on the local computer.
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Op Fl scbalh              \" [-scbalh]
.Op Fl n Ar directoryDomainName    \" [-n directoryDomainName] 
.Op Fl u Ar username    \" [-n directoryDomainName] 
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
provides several options for creating and populating home directories.
.Sh OPTIONS				\" Section Header
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Differs from above in tag removed 
.It Fl s                 \"-a flag as a list item
creates home directories for server home paths only (default).
.It Fl c
creates home directories for local home paths only.
.It Fl b
creates home directories for both server and local home paths.
.It Fl a
creates home directories for users defined in all directory domains of the server's search path.
.It Fl l
creates home directories for users defined in the local directory domain.
.It Fl L
causes the created home directory to be localized.
.It Fl n Ar directoryDomainName
creates home directories for users defined in a specific directory domain in the server's search path.
.It Fl u Ar username
creates a home directory for a specific user defined in the domain(s) identified in the -a, -l, or -n parameter. If you omit the -a, -l, and -n parameters when you use the -u parameter, -a is assumed.
.It Fl i
reads username list from standard input and creates specified home directories. Each username should be on its own line.
.It Fl h
usage help.
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Pp
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT      \" May not be needed
.\" .Bl -tag -width "ENV_VAR_1" -indent \" ENV_VAR_1 is width of the string ENV_VAR_1
.\" .It Ev ENV_VAR_1
.\" Description of ENV_VAR_1
.\" .It Ev ENV_VAR_2
.\" Description of ENV_VAR_2
.\" .El                      
.Sh FILES                \" File used or created by the topic of the man page
.Bl -tag -width "/Users/joeuser/Library/really_long_file_name" -compact
.It Pa /usr/sbin/createhomedir
location of tool
.El
.Sh CAVEATS
When using the -a option, search limits of various directory servers (such as Open Directory or Active Directory) can prevent all possible home directories from being created. In this case, you may need to specify the usernames explicitly.
