.\" Copyright (c) 2016 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.
.Dd May 10, 2016
.Dt log 1
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME
.Nm log
.Nd Access system wide log messages created by os_log, os_trace and other logging systems.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Ar command Op Ar options
.Pp
.Nm
.Cm help Op Ar command
.Pp
.Nm
.Cm collect
.Op Fl -output Ar path
.Op Fl -start Ar date/time
.Op Fl -size Ar num Op k|m
.Op Fl -last Ar num Op m|h|d
.Op Fl -device | Fl -device-name Ar name | Fl -device-udid Ar UDID
.Pp
.Nm
.Cm config
.Op Fl -reset | Fl -status
.Op Fl -mode Ar mode(s)
.Op Fl -subsystem Ar name Op Fl -category Ar name
.Op Fl -process Ar pid
.Pp
.Nm
.Cm erase
.Op Fl -all
.Op Fl -ttl
.Pp
.Nm
.Cm show
.Op Fl -archive Ar archive | Fl -file Ar file
.Op Fl -predicate Ar filter
.Op Fl -process Ar pid | process
.Op Fl -source
.Op Fl -style Ar default | compact | json | ndjson | syslog
.Op Fl -color Ar auto | always | none
.Op Fl -start Ar date/time
.Op Fl -end Ar date/time
.Op Fl -[no-]info
.Op Fl -[no-]debug
.Op Fl -[no-]pager
.Op Fl -[no-]signpost
.Op Fl -last Ar time Op m|h|d
.Op Fl -timezone Ar local | timezone
.Pp
.Nm
.Cm stats
.Op Fl -archive Ar archive
.Op Fl -sort Ar events | Ar bytes
.Op Fl -count Ar count | Ar all
.Op Fl -overview | -per-book | -per-file | -sender Ar sender | Fl -process Ar process | Fl -predicate Ar predicate
.Pp
.Nm
.Cm stream
.Op Fl -level Ar default | info | debug
.Op Fl -predicate Ar filter
.Op Fl -process Ar pid | process
.Op Fl -source
.Op Fl -style Ar default | compact | json | syslog
.Op Fl -color Ar auto | always | none
.Op Fl -timeout Ar time Op m|h|d
.Op Fl -type Ar activity | log | trace
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is used to access system wide log messages created by os_log, os_trace and other logging systems.
Some commands require root privileges.
.Pp
Available commands and their options:
.Bl -tag -width "collect    "
.It Cm help
General help or help specific to command argument
.It Cm collect
Collect the system logs into a .logarchive that can be viewed later with tools such as
.Nm
or Console.
If an output path is not specified, system_logs.logarchive will be created in the current directory.
.Bl -tag -width "--archive path "
.It Fl -output Ar path
Save the archive to the specified path or file.
If the path is a directory, a file named system_logs.logarchive will be created in the specified directory.
If the path contains the extension .logarchive, a new logarchive will be created with that name at the specified path.
.It Fl -start Ar date/time
Limits the content capture to the date and time forward to now.
The following date/time formats are accepted:
"YYYY-MM-DD",
"YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS",
"YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SSZZZZZ"
.It Fl -last Ar num Op m|h|d
Limits the captured events to the period starting at the given interval ago from the current time.
Time is assumed in seconds unless specified.
Example: "--last 2m" or "--last 3h"
.It Fl -size Ar num Op k|m
The amount of data to be captured in kilobytes or megabytes.
This is an approximation, as the actual size may be more than requested.
Example: "--size 100k" or "--size 20m"
.It Fl -device
Collect system logs from paired device (first device found).
.It Fl -device-name Ar name
Collect system logs from paired device with the given name.
.It Fl -device-udid Ar UDID
Collect system logs from paired device with the given UDID.
.El
.It Cm config
Configure, reset or read settings for the logging system.
config commands can act system-wide or on a subsystem.
If not specified, system-wide is assumed.
If subsystem is specified, category is optional.
Requires root access.
.Bl -tag -width "--archive path "
.It Fl -reset | Fl -status
Option to show or reset the current settings for the system or a specific subsystem.
If reset or status is not specified, a change to the configuration is assumed.
For example, "log config --reset --subsystem com.mycompany.mysubsystem" will reset the subsystem to its default settings.
"log config --status" will show the current system-wide logging settings.
"log config --mode "level: default"" will set the system log level to default.
.It Fl -subsystem Ar name
Set or get mode for a specified subsystem.
.It Fl -category Ar name
Set or get mode for a specified category.
If category is supplied, subsystem is required.
.It Fl -process Ar pid
Set mode for a specified pid.
.It Fl -mode Ar mode(s)
Will enable given mode.
Modes include:
.Pp
level: {off | default | info | debug} The level is a hierarchy, e.g. debug implies debug, info, and default.
.Pp
persist: {off | default | info | debug} The persist mode is a hierarchy, e.g. debug implies debug, info, and default.
.El
.It Cm erase
Delete selected log data from the system.
If no arguments are specified, the main log datastore and inflight log data will be deleted.
.Bl -tag -width "--archive path "
.It Fl -all
Deletes main log datastore, and inflight log data as well as time-to-live data (TTL), and the fault and error content.
.It Fl -ttl
Deletes time-to-live log content.
.El
.It Cm show
Shows contents of the system log datastore, archive or a specific tracev3 file.
If a file or archive is not specified, the system datastore will be shown.
If it is from a future system version that log cannot understand,
it exits with EX_DATAERR (65) and an error message.
The output contains only default level messages unless --info and/or --debug are specified.
The output does not contain signposts unless --signpost is specified.
.Bl -tag -width "--archive path "
.It Fl -archive Ar archive
Display events stored in the given archive.
The archive must be a valid log archive bundle with the suffix
\fB.logarchive\fR.
.It Fl -file Ar file
Display events stored in the given \fB.tracev3\fR file.
In order to be decoded, the file must be contained within a valid
\fB.logarchive\fR bundle, or part of the system logs directory.
.It Fl -[no-]pager
Enable or disable pagination of output via less.
.It Fl -predicate Ar filter
Filters messages based on the provided predicate, based on NSPredicate.
A compound predicate or multiple predicates can be provided.
See section \fB"PREDICATE-BASED FILTERING"\fR below.
.It Fl -process Ar pid | process
The process on which to operate.
This option can be passed more than once to operate on multiple processes.
.It Fl -source
Include symbol names and source line numbers for messages, if available.
.It Fl -style Ar style
Control the output formatting of events:
.Bl -tag -width "default "
.It Ar default
Human readable output.
ISO-8601 date (microsecond precision and timezone offset), thread ID, log type,
activity ID, process ID, TTL, process, subsystem, category and message content.
.It Ar compact
Compact human readable output.
ISO-8601 date (millisecond precision), abbreviated log type, process, processID,
thread ID, subsystem, category and message content.
This output uses less horizontal space to indicate event metadata than the
.Ar default
style.
.It Ar json
JSON output.
Event data is synthesized as an array of JSON dictionaries.
.It Ar ndjson
Line-delimited JSON output.
Event data is synthesized as JSON dictionaries, each emitted on a single line.
A trailing record, identified by the inclusion of a "finished" field, is emitted
to indicate the end of events.
.It Ar syslog
syslog-style output intended to be more compatible with the output format used by
.Xr syslog 1 .
.El
.It Fl -color Ar auto | always | none
Control the display of colorized output.
By default,
.Nm
will disable colorized output when not directed to a terminal, unless overidden
using
.Ar always .
.It Fl -start Ar date/time
Shows content starting from the provided date.
The following date/time formats are accepted:
"YYYY-MM-DD",
"YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS",
"YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SSZZZZZ"
.It Fl -end Ar date/time
Shows content up to the provided date.
The following date/time formats are accepted:
"YYYY-MM-DD",
"YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS",
"YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SSZZZZZ"
.It Fl -last Ar time Ns Oo m|h|d Oc | boot
Shows events that occurred within the given time relative to the end of the log
archive, or beginning at the last boot contained within the log archive.
Time may be specified as minutes, hours or days.
Time is assumed in seconds unless specified.
Example: "--last 2m" or "--last 3h"
.It Fl -timezone Ar local | timezone
Displays content in the local timezone, or a specified timezone (see
.Xr tzset 3 ) .
If not specified, the output is displayed in the timezone at the time the entry
was written to source archive or file.
.It Fl -[no-]info
Disable or enable info level messages in the output.
(By default info messages are not displayed.)
.It Fl -[no-]debug
Disable or enable debug level messages in the output.
(By default debug messages are not displayed.)
.It Fl -[no-]signpost
Disable or enable display of signposts in the output.
(By default signposts are not displayed.)
.El
.It Cm stats
Shows a breakdown of the events contained within a log datastore or archive.
The following options can be supplied to all modes of \fBlog stats\fR:
.Bl -tag -width "--sort events | bytes "
.It Fl -archive Ar archive
Display statistics for events stored in the given archive.
The archive must be a valid log archive bundle with the suffix
\fB.logarchive\fR.
.It Fl -sort Ar events | bytes
Sort tabulated data output by number of events, or number of bytes.
.It Fl -count Ar count | all
Limit tabulated data to the given number of lines, or \fBall\fR displays all entries in tables.
.It Fl -style Ar human | json
Control the format style of the requested output mode.
.El
.Pp
In addition, one of the following output modes can be supplied:
.Bl -tag -width "--sort events | bytes "
.It Fl -overview
Displays statistics for the entire archive.
.It Fl -per-book
Displays statistics per log book, the subsections of a log archive.
.It Fl -per-file
Displays statistics per file in the archive.
.It Fl -sender Ar sender
Displays statistics for a given sender image name.
.It Fl -process Ar process
Displays statistics for a given originating process.
.It Fl -predicate Ar predicate
Displays statistics for all events matching the given predicate.
.El
.It Cm stream
Stream activities, log data or trace messages for the system or from a given process.
By default, the command assumes system-wide streaming.
Specifying a process id with the --process option will narrow the results.
.Bl -tag -width "--archive path "
.It Fl -level Ar default | info | debug
Shows messages at specified level and below.
The level is a hierarchy.
Specifying debug implies debug, info and default.
.It Fl -predicate Ar filter
Filters messages using the provided predicate based on NSPredicate.
A compound predicate or multiple predicates can be provided.
See section \fB"PREDICATE-BASED FILTERING"\fR below.
.It Fl -process Ar pid | process
The process on which to operate.
This option can be passed more than once to operate on multiple processes.
.It Fl -style Ar default | compact | json | syslog
Output the content as a different style.
.It Fl -color Ar auto | always | none
Highlight certain types of log messages.
In auto, highlighting will be disabled if the output is detected to be non-TTY.
.It Fl -source
Include symbol names and source line numbers for messages, if available.
.It Fl -timeout Ar time Op m|h|d
Timeout the stream operation after a specified time, e.g. "--timeout 5m", "--timeout 1h"
If minutes, hours, days not specified, seconds will be used.
.It Fl -type Ar activity | log | trace
Dictates the type of events to stream from a process.
By default all types are streamed unless otherwise specified.
Pass an appropriate
.Fl -type
for each requested type of event.
.El
.El
.Sh PREDICATE-BASED FILTERING
Using predicate-based filters via the
.Fl -predicate
option allows users to focus on messages based on the provided filter criteria.
For detailed information on the use of predicate based filtering, please refer to the
.Lk https://developer.apple.com/library/mac/documentation/Cocoa/Conceptual/Predicates/Articles/pSyntax.html "Predicate Programming Guide"
.Pp
The
.Ar filter
argument defines one or more pattern clauses following NSPredicate rules.
See \fBlog help predicates\fR for the full list of supported keys.
Supported keys include:
.Bl -tag -width "processImagePath "
.It \fBeventType\fR
The type of event: \fBactivityCreateEvent\fR, \fBactivityTransitionEvent\fR, \fBlogEvent\fR, \fBsignpostEvent\fR, \fBstateEvent\fR, \fBtimesyncEvent\fR, \fBtraceEvent\fR and \fBuserActionEvent\fR.
.It \fBeventMessage\fR
The pattern within the message text, or activity name of a log/trace entry.
.It \fBmessageType\fR
For logEvent and traceEvent, the type of the message itself: \fBdefault\fR, \fBinfo\fR, \fBdebug\fR, \fBerror\fR or \fBfault\fR.
.It \fBprocess\fR
The name of the process the originated the event.
.It \fBprocessImagePath\fR
The full path of the process that originated the event.
.It \fBsender\fR
The name of the library, framework, kernel extension, or mach-o image, that originated the event.
.It \fBsenderImagePath\fR
The full path of the library, framework, kernel extension, or mach-o image, that originated the event.
.It \fBsubsystem\fR
The subsystem used to log an event.
Only works with log messages generated with
.Xr os_log 3
APIs.
.It \fBcategory\fR
The category used to log an event.
Only works with log messages generated with
.Xr os_log 3
APIs.
When category is used, the \fBsubsystem\fR filter should also be provided.
.El
.Sh PREDICATE-BASED FILTERING EXAMPLES
Filter for specific subsystem:
.nf
 \fBlog show --predicate 'subsystem == "com.example.my_subsystem"'\fR
.fi
.Pp
Filter for specific subsystem and category:
.nf
 \fBlog show --predicate '(subsystem == "com.example.my_subsystem") && (category == "desired_category")'\fR
.fi
.Pp
Filter for specific subsystem and categories:
.nf
 \fBlog show --predicate '(subsystem == "com.example.my_subsystem") && (category IN { "category1", "category2" })'\fR
.fi
.Pp
Filter for a specific subsystem and sender(s):
.nf
 \fBlog show --predicate '(subsystem == "com.example.my_subsystem") && ((senderImagePath ENDSWITH "mybinary") || (senderImagePath ENDSWITH "myframework"))'\fR
.fi
.Sh PREDICATE-BASED FILTERING EXAMPLES WITH LOG LINE
.nf
.Pp
\fBlog show system_logs.logarchive --predicate 'subsystem == "com.example.subsystem" and category contains "CHECK"'\fR
.Pp
Timestamp                       Thread     Type        Activity     PID
2016-06-13 11:46:37.248693-0700 0x7c393    Default     0x0          10371  timestamp: [com.example.subsystem.CHECKTIME] Time is 06/13/2016 11:46:37
.nf
.Pp
\fBlog show --predicate 'processImagePath endswith "hidd" and senderImagePath contains[cd] "IOKit"' --info\fR
.Pp
Timestamp                       Thread     Type        Activity     PID
2016-06-10 13:54:34.593220-0700 0x250      Info        0x0          113    hidd: (IOKit) [com.apple.iohid.default] Loaded 6 HID plugins
.Pp
.fi
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variables affect the execution of \fBlog\fR:
.Bl -tag -width "OS_ACTIVITY_PROPAGATE_MODE "
.It Ev LOG_COLORS
Controls the color of text output from \fBlog show\fR.
This string is a concatenation of pairs of the format
.Ar f Ns Ar b ,
where
.Ar f
is the foreground color and
.Ar b
is the background color.
.Pp
The color designators are as follows:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width 4n -offset indent -compact
.It Sy a
black
.It Sy b
red
.It Sy c
green
.It Sy d
brown
.It Sy e
blue
.It Sy f
magenta
.It Sy g
cyan
.It Sy h
light grey
.It Sy A
bold black, usually shows up as dark grey
.It Sy B
bold red
.It Sy C
bold green
.It Sy D
bold brown, usually shows up as yellow
.It Sy E
bold blue
.It Sy F
bold magenta
.It Sy G
bold cyan
.It Sy H
bold light grey; looks like bright white
.It Sy x
default foreground or background
.El
.Pp
Note that the above are standard
\*[Ai]
colors.
The actual display may differ
depending on the color capabilities of the terminal in use.
.Pp
The order of the attributes are as follows:
.Pp
.Bl -enum -offset indent -compact
.It
timestamp
.It
thread identifier
.It
event type
.It
activity identifier
.It
process identifier
.It
time-to-live
.It
process name
.It
sender image name
.It
subsystem
.It
category
.It
event message
.It
highlight color
.El
.Pp
The default is
.Qq "xxxxxxxxxxxxFxdxcxExxxxA" ,
i.e. bold magenta process name, yellow sender, green subsystem, bold blue category and dark grey background for highlighted lines.
.It Ev LOG_STYLE
Control the default output style of \fBlog show\fR: default, compact, json or syslog.
.It Ev OS_ACTIVITY_MODE
Change the mode of launched processes to:
.Bl -tag -width "debug " -compact
.It Fa info
Enables info level messages.
Does not override logging Preferences that have info level disabled.
.It Fa debug
Enables debug level messages which includes info level messages.
Does not override logging Preferences that have info level or debug level disabled.
.El
.It Ev OS_ACTIVITY_STREAM
Change the type of streaming enabled.
.Bl -tag -width "debug " -compact
.It Fa live
Live streaming from the process using IPC.
.El
.It Ev OS_ACTIVITY_PROPAGATE_MODE
If set, will propagate the mode settings via activities.
.El
.Sh FILES
You can control the execution of \fBlog show\fR and \fBlog stream\fR
with a configuration file located at ~/.logrc.
Given a ~/.logrc like this:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# .logrc - default log(1) arguments, handy predicate shortcuts

show:
    --style compact
    --last 1h
    --info      # turn back off with --no-info
    --no-debug  # turn back on with --debug

predicate:
    app 'process == "application"'
    errors 'process == "application" and messageType == error'
    s
        'process == "application" and '         # adjacent strings
        'subsystem == "com.example.support"'    # get merged
.Ed
.Pp
\fBlog show\fR would automatically run as though the arguments
.Bd -literal -offset indent
--style compact --last 1h --info --no-debug
.Ed
.Pp
were passed in.
Explicit options will override the arguments provided by ~/.logrc.
Furthermore, running with \fB--predicate app\fR
would be the same as using:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
--predicate 'process == "application"'
.Ed
.Pp
The syntax of the ~/.logrc file made of
comments,
section headers,
options,
words,
and single-quoted strings.
Comments start with the hash character
and run to the end of the line.
Otherwise, contents are whitespace-separated.
.Pp
The structure of the ~/.logrc file is broken into sections.
Section headers are specified by a word and a colon.
There are three kinds of sections.
The \fBshow:\fR and \fBstream:\fR sections operate similarly.
Their contents are literal options and arguments
that will be passed to the respective command
as if they were entered on the command line.
The \fBpredicate:\fR section creates aliases for predicates.
It is made up of pairs of:
.Bd -filled -offset indent
.Ar word
.Sm off
.Li '
.Ar predicate
.Li '
.Sm on
.Ed
.Pp
where
.Ar word
is a combination of letters (presumably a simple, easy-to-type one) and
.Ar predicate
is some filtering logic, as described in the
.Sx PREDICATE-BASED FILTERING
section above.
The
.Ar predicate
is delimited by single quotes, but
adjacent quoted elements are "glued" together;
this helps in making long predicates easier to read and write.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr os_log 3 ,
.Xr os_trace 3
