.\"
.\" lpq man page for CUPS.
.\"
.\" Copyright © 2007-2019 by Apple Inc.
.\" Copyright © 1997-2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\" Licensed under Apache License v2.0.  See the file "LICENSE" for more
.\" information.
.\"
.TH lpq 1 "CUPS" "26 April 2019" "Apple Inc."
.SH NAME
lpq \- show printer queue status
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lpq
[
.B \-E
] [
.B \-U
.I username
] [
\fB\-h \fIserver\fR[\fB:\fIport\fR]
] [
\fB\-P \fIdestination\fR[\fB/\fIinstance\fR]
] [
.B \-a
] [
.B \-l
] [
.BI + interval
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBlpq\fR shows the current print queue status on the named printer.
Jobs queued on the default destination will be shown if no printer or class is specified on the command-line.
.LP
The \fI+interval\fR option allows you to continuously report the jobs in the queue until the queue is empty; the list of jobs is shown once every \fIinterval\fR seconds.
.SH OPTIONS
\fBlpq\fR supports the following options:
.TP 5
.B \-E
Forces encryption when connecting to the server.
.TP 5
\fB\-P \fIdestination\fR[\fB/\fIinstance\fR]
Specifies an alternate printer or class name.
.TP 5
\fB\-U \fIusername\fR
Specifies an alternate username.
.TP 5
.B \-a
Reports jobs on all printers.
.TP 5
\fB\-h \fIserver\fR[\fB:\fIport\fR]
Specifies an alternate server.
.TP 5
.B \-l
Requests a more verbose (long) reporting format.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cancel (1),
.BR lp (1),
.BR lpr (1),
.BR lprm (1),
.BR lpstat (1),
CUPS Online Help (http://localhost:631/help)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \[co] 2007-2019 by Apple Inc.
