.Dd 03/18/14
.Dt netlog 1
.Os Darwin
.\"---------
.Sh NAME
.\"---------
.Nm netlog
.Nd Log summary of every UDP and TCP socket when the socket is closed.
.\"---------
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.\"---------
.Nm
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl i Ar interval
.Op Fl I Ar iterations
.Op Fl t Ar type
.Op Fl p Ar process-name|pid
.Op Fl c
.Op Fl z
.\"---------
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.\"---------
The
.Nm
program logs a summary for each TCP and UDP socket when the socket is
closed. A header is printed once. The row items are separated by spaces.
Address to hostname lookups are not performed. Sockets that do not send
or receive any data are not listed unless the -z option is specified.
.\"---------
.Sh OPTIONS
.\"---------
A list of flags and their descriptions:
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Fl v
Verbose output
.It Fl i Ar interval
Report socket statistics periodically
.It Fl I Ar iterations
Used in combination with
.Fl i ,
will make
.Nm
exit after the specified number of iterations.
.It Fl t Ar type
Specify the type of interface. By default, all interfaces will be monitored.
Multiple interface types may be specified.  The
following types are supported:
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Cm wifi
WiFi interfaces
.It Cm wired
Wired interfaces
.It Cm loopback
Loopback interfaces
.It Cm awdl
Apple Wireless Direct Link interfaces
.It Cm expensive
Interfaces marked as "expensive", for example via hotspot
.It Cm undefined
Cases where the underlying socket is not associated with an interface
.It Cm external
The combination of all defined non-loopback interfaces.
.El
.It Fl p Ar process-name|pid
Select a process for display.  A numeric argument identifies a process by its pid.
Alternatively a process name may be given, in which case all processes with that name will be displayed.
The name must be an exact match for the name displayed by netlog, which may require that the name be truncated,
for example launchd.develop instead of launchd.development.
This option may be repeated to select multiple processes.
.It Fl c
Print details in comma-separated values (CSV) form.
.It Fl z
Print details even if there was no data transfer on the socket
.El
.\"---------
.\" .Sh BUGS              \" Document known, unremedied bugs 
.\"---------
.\"---------
.\" .Sh HISTORY           \" Document history if command behaves in a unique manner
.\"---------
