.TH POSTLOG 1 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
postlog
\-
Postfix\-compatible logging utility
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
.fi
.ad
\fBpostlog\fR [\fB\-iv\fR] [\fB\-c \fIconfig_dir\fR]
[\fB\-p \fIpriority\fR] [\fB\-t \fItag\fR] [\fItext...\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
The \fBpostlog\fR(1) command implements a Postfix\-compatible logging
interface for use in, for example, shell scripts.

By default, \fBpostlog\fR(1) logs the \fItext\fR given on the command
line as one record. If no \fItext\fR is specified on the command
line, \fBpostlog\fR(1) reads from standard input and logs each input
line as one record.

Logging is sent to \fBsyslogd\fR(8); when the standard error stream
is connected to a terminal, logging is sent there as well.

The following options are implemented:
.IP "\fB\-c \fIconfig_dir\fR"
Read the \fBmain.cf\fR configuration file in the named directory
instead of the default configuration directory.
.IP \fB\-i\fR
Include the process ID in the logging tag.
.IP "\fB\-p \fIpriority\fR (default: \fBinfo\fR)"
Specifies the logging severity: \fBinfo\fR, \fBwarn\fR,
\fBerror\fR, \fBfatal\fR, or \fBpanic\fR. With Postfix 3.1
and later, the program will pause for 1 second after reporting
a \fBfatal\fR or \fBpanic\fR condition, just like other
Postfix programs.
.IP "\fB\-t \fItag\fR"
Specifies the logging tag, that is, the identifying name that
appears at the beginning of each logging record. A default tag
is used when none is specified.
.IP \fB\-v\fR
Enable verbose logging for debugging purposes. Multiple \fB\-v\fR
options make the software increasingly verbose.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP MAIL_CONFIG
Directory with the \fBmain.cf\fR file.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
The following \fBmain.cf\fR parameters are especially relevant to
this program.

The text below provides only a parameter summary. See
\fBpostconf\fR(5) for more details including examples.
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
The default location of the Postfix main.cf and master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBimport_environment (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
The list of environment parameters that a privileged Postfix
process will import from a non\-Postfix parent process, or name=value
environment overrides.
.IP "\fBsyslog_facility (mail)\fR"
The syslog facility of Postfix logging.
.IP "\fBsyslog_name (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
A prefix that is prepended to the process name in syslog
records, so that, for example, "smtpd" becomes "prefix/smtpd".
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
postconf(5), configuration parameters
syslogd(8), syslog daemon
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
The Secure Mailer license must be distributed with this software.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA

Wietse Venema
Google, Inc.
111 8th Avenue
New York, NY 10011, USA
