.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.Dd 8/9/12               \" DATE
.Dt sfltool 1      \" Program name and manual section number
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm sfltool
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line.
.\" Use .Nm macro to designate other names for the documented program.
.Nd tool for testing and debugging SharedFileList.
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Op Ar archive Op Fl z
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
a tool for testing and debugging SharedFileList.
.Nm 
.Ar archive Op -z 
creates a directory containing a snapshot of the content of the SharedFileList persistant store locations. Adding  
.Ar -z
will archive the a directory.
.Sh FILES                \" File used or created by the topic of the man page
.Bl -tag -width "/usr/local/bin/sfltool" -compact
.It Pa /usr/local/bin/sfltool
executable
.El                      \" Ends the list
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS       \" May not be needed
.\" .Bl -diag
.\" .It Diagnostic Tag
.\" Diagnostic informtion here.
.\" .It Diagnostic Tag
.\" Diagnostic informtion here.
.\" .El
.\" .Sh BUGS              \" Document known, unremedied bugs
.\" .Sh HISTORY           \" Document history if command behaves in a unique manner
