.\" $Id: smbutil.1,v 1.6 2006/01/06 07:37:18 lindak Exp $
.Dd February 14, 2000
.Dt SMBUTIL 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm smbutil
.Nd "interface to the SMB requester"
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl hv
.Ar command
.Op Fl Ar options
.Op Ar args
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
command is used to control SMB requester and issue various commands.
.Pp
There are two types of options \(em global and local to the specified
.Ar command .
.Pp
Global options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl h
Print a short help message.
.It Fl v
Verbose output.
.El
.Pp
The commands and local options are:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Cm help Ar command
Print usage information about
.Ar command .
.It Xo
.Cm lookup
.Op Fl w Ar host
.Op Fl t Ar node_type
.Op Fl e
.Ar name
.Xc
Resolve the given
.Ar name
to an IP address.
The NetBIOS name server can be 
directly specified via the
.Fl w
option. The NetBIOS name type can be specified via the 
.Fl t ,
the default is to lookup file servers. For a complete list of name types please see "http://support.microsoft.com/kb/163409".
The NetBIOS names will be unpercent escaped out if the 
.Fl e
option is specified.
.It Xo
.Cm status
.Op Fl ae
.Ar hostname
.Xc
Resolve given
.Ar hostname
(IP address or DNS name) to NetBIOS workgroup and system name. All 
NetBIOS names will be displayed if the 
.Fl a
option is specified. All NetBIOS names will be percent escaped out if the 
.Fl e
option is specified.
.It Xo
.Cm view
.Oo Fl Ar options
.Oc // Ns Oo Ar domain ;
.Oc Ns Oo Ar user Ns Oo
.Pf : Ar password
.Oc Ns @ Ns Oc Ns Ar server
.Xc
List resources available on the specified
.Ar server
for the 
.Ar user . 
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl A 
authorize only.
.It Fl N 
don't prompt for a password.
.It Fl G 
allow guest access.
.It Fl g 
authorize with guest only.
.It Fl a
authorize with anonymous only.
.It Fl f
don't share session.
.El
.Pp
.It Xo
.Cm identity
.Oo Fl N
.Oc // Ns Oo Ar domain ;
.Oc Ns Oo Ar user Ns Oo
.Pf : Ar password
.Oc Ns @ Ns Oc Ns Ar server
.Xc
Display the user's identity as known by the
.Ar server
for the authenticated session. Will not prompt for a password if the 
.Fl N
option is specified.
.It Xo
.Cm dfs 
.Pf smb:// Oo Ar domain ;
.Oc Ns Oo Ar user Ns Oo
.Pf : Ar password
.Oc Ns @ Ns Oc Ns Ar server/DfsRoot Ns Oo
.Pf / Ar DfsLink
.Oc
.Xc
Display the Dfs referrals for this 
.Ar URL
for the authenticated session.
.It Xo
.Cm statshares
.Op Fl m Ar mount_path
|
.Op Fl a
.Xc
If
.Fl m
is specified, it prints the attributes of the share mounted at 
.Ar mount_path .
If
.Fl a
is specified, it prints the attributes of all mounted shares. You can not specify both
.Fl m
and
.Fl a
together since they are mutually exclusive.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width ".Pa nsmb.conf" -compact
.It Pa nsmb.conf
Keeps static parameters for connections and other information.
See
.Pa man nsmb.conf
for details.
.El
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Boris Popov Aq bp@butya.kz ,
.Aq bp@FreeBSD.org
.Sh BUGS
Please report any bugs to Apple.
