.\" Copyright (c) 2015 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" The contents of this file constitute Original Code as defined in and
.\" are subject to the Apple Public Source License Version 1.1 (the
.\" "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the
.\" License.  Please obtain a copy of the License at
.\" http://www.apple.com/publicsource and read it before using this file.
.\" 
.\" This Original Code and all software distributed under the License are
.\" distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AND APPLE HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL SUCH WARRANTIES,
.\" INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.  Please see the
.\" License for the specific language governing rights and limitations
.\" under the License.
.\" 
.\"     @(#)apfs_hfs_convert.8
.hlm 0
.Dd September 15, 2015
.Dt APFS_HFS_CONVERT 8
.Os "Mac OS X"
.Sh NAME
.Nm apfs_hfs_convert
.Nd convert an existing HFS file system to
.Tn APFS 
file system
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl D
.Op Fl e
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl i
.Op Fl S Ar path
.Op Fl n
.Op Fl f
.Op Fl F Ar index
.Op Fl M Ar mount_path
.Op Fl o Ar nx-apfs-format
.Ar <device-path>
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
command converts an existing HFS file system to a new
.Tn APFS
file system.
.Pp
The
.Ar device-path
parameter should be the path to a disk device node, such as
.Pa /dev/disk1s2 ,  
with an existing HFS file system, 
which needs to be converted.
The
.Ar device-path
may be a path to a whole disk, such as
.Pa /dev/disk0 ,
which contains Lightweight Volume Manager (LwVM) structures; all HFS slices will
be converted and LwVM replaced by a GPT partition map with a single partition
containing the APFS container.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width 20n
.It Fl e | Fl -estimate
Estimate the APFS metadata size after conversion.
.It Fl v | Fl -verbose
Increase verbosity of the output.
.It Fl s | Fl -force-case-sensitive
Force the converted volume to be case-sensitive. By default, the converted volume will have the same case-sensitivity as the original HFS volume.
.It Fl S Ar path | Fl -stats Ar path
Print statistics about the conversion to the supplied
.Ar path .
If the path is
.Ar -
then the statistics are printed to standard output.
.It Fl n | Fl -dry-run
Do not finalize the conversion to APFS. Volume remains HFS.
.It Fl f | Fl -force
Force conversion if volume is dirty (journal is non-empty, volume had inconsistencies, or volume is not journaled and not unmounted cleanly).
.It Fl F Ar index | Fl -fixed Ar index
Volume number
.Ar index
(0-based) should be formatted as fixed-size.
Usually used when converting LwVM.
.It Fl M Ar mount_path | Fl -mount-path Ar mount_path
When converting LwVM systems, which require a special "conversion mount" of the underlying device, use the given
.Ar mount_path
as the mount point.
If this option is not used, a temporary directory will be created and used.
.It Fl o Ar nx-apfs-format
NX or APFS format options.
.It Fl D | Fl -skip-single-dirlinks
Convert all former and current directory hardlinks to files/aliases. 
.El
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Ex -std
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following converts the HFS file system
on the
.Pa /dev/disk1s2
device:
.Dl Nm Fl v Pa /dev/disk1s2
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mount_apfs 8
,
.Xr newfs_apfs 8
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
utility first appeared in OS X 10.12.
