.Dd November 14, 2012 
.Os Darwin
.Dt KEXTLIBS 8
.Sh NAME
.Nm kextlibs
.Nd find OSBundleLibraries needed by a kext
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Ar options
.Op Fl -
.Ar kext Li \&.\|.\|.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility searches for library kexts that define symbols
needed for linking by
.Ar kext ,
printing their bundle identifiers and versions to
.Pa stdout .
If the kext has a multiple-architecture executable,
libraries are resolved for each architecture.
If any symbols are not found, or are found in multiple libraries,
the numbers of such symbols are printed to standard error
after the library kext information for each architecture.
.Pp
A handy use of
.Nm
is to run it with just the
.Fl xml
flag and pipe the output to
.Xr pbcopy(1) ;
if the exit status is zero
(indicating no undefined or multiply-defined symbols),
you can open your kext's
.Pa Info.plist
file in a text editor
and paste the library declarations over the OSBundleLibraries property.
.Pp
You can use
.Nm
to find libraries for older releases of Mac OS X
using the
.Fl repository
option to specify an extensions folder to search
other than the extensions directories for the root volume
(although releases prior to Mac OS X 10.6 (Snow Leopard)
don't check for architecture-specific properties,
so be sure to check the output and edit as needed).
If you don't explicitly specify a repository directory,
.Nm
searches the root volume's /System/Library/Extensions and /Library/Extensions directories.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Fl h , help
Print a help message describing each option flag and exit with a success result,
regardless of any other options on the command line.
.It Fl all-symbols
Print reports on all symbols that remain undefined,
all symbols that have been resolved in one library kext each,
and all symbols that have multiple definitions in different library kexts.
Equivalent to specifying all of
.Fl undef-symbols ,
.Fl onedef-symbols ,
and
.Fl multdef-symbols .
Normally only the number of missing and duplicate symbols is printed.
.It Fl c , Fl compatible-versions
Print the compatible version rather than the current version.
.It Fl multdef-symbols
Print all undefined symbols from
.Ar kext
found in more than one library kext,
followed by those library kexts' bundle identifiers
and versions (or compatible versions if
.Fl compatible-versions
was specified).
Normally only the number of multiply-defined symbols is printed.
.It Fl non-kpi
Search the compatibility kext, com.apple.kernel.6.0,
rather than any of the com.apple.kpi.* system kexts.
Use of this option is not recommended:
The exact kernel component (mach, bsd, libkern, or iokit)
cannot be determined,
and the compatible version of com.apple.kernel
is locked to its current version,
so kexts linking against it can only load against that exact version.
.It Fl onedef-symbols
Print all undefined symbols from
.Ar kext
found in exactly one library kext,
followed by that library kext's bundle identifier
and version (or compatible version if
.Fl compatible-versions
was specified).
Normally nothing is printed about symbols that are found once.
.It Fl r Ar directory , Fl repository Ar directory
Search
.Ar directory
for dependencies.
This option may be specified multiple times.
You can use this to get library declarations
relative to a set of extensions other than those of the running system
(such as for a different release of Mac OS X),
or to include a side directory of library kexts.
Note: If you specify a directory with this option,
the system extensions folders are not implicitly searched.
See
.Fl system-extensions .
.It Fl e , Fl system-extensions
Add /System/Library/Extensions and /Library/Extensions to the list of directories to search.
If you don't specify any directories or kexts, this is used by default.
.It Fl undef-symbols
Print all undefined symbols from
.Ar kext
that can't be found in any library kexts.
Normally only the number of symbols not found is printed.
.It Fl unsupported
Search unsupported library kexts for symbols (by default they are not searched).
.It Fl v Li [ 0-6 | 0x#### Ns Li ] , Fl verbose Li [ 0-6 | 0x#### Ns Li ]
Verbose mode; print information about program operation.
Higher levels of verbosity include all lower levels.
You can specify a level from 0-6,
or a hexadecimal log specification
(as described in
.Xr kext_logging 8 Ns No ).
For
.Nm ,
the decimal levels 1-6 generally have little effect.
.It Fl xml
Print an XML fragment to
.Pa stdout
suitable for copying and pasting directly
into an
.Pa Info.plist
file.
This option prints
information about libraries to
.Pa stdout ,
and then prints
information
about symbols to
.Pa stderr.
In XML mode, if the libraries for all architectures
are the same, only one set of OSBundleLibraries is printed;
if any differ from any others,
architecture-specific listings for all architectures are printed
(OSBundleLibraries_i386, OSBundleLibraries_x86_64, and so on).
.Pp
.It Fl -
End of options.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width "/System/Library/Extensions/" -compact
.It Pa /System/Library/Extensions/
The standard system repository of kernel extensions.
.It Pa /Library/Extensions/
The standard repository of non Apple kernel extensions.
.El
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
The
.Nm
utility exits with a status of 0 on completion
if all undefined symbols are found exactly once;
with a status of 1 if any undefined symbols remain,
or with a status of 2 if any symbols
are found in more than one library kext
(whether or not any undefined symbols remain),
and with another nonzero status on some other problem.
.Sh BUGS
.Nm
uses a simple algorithm of string matching to resolve symbols,
and does not apply any of the patching that the full link process does.
This can cause it to fail when searching for symbols
in a kext built against an SDK for a prior release of Mac OS X
than the one on which
.Nm
is being used.
In such cases, you can run
.Nm
against the Extensions folder of that prior release
using the
.Fl repository
option.
.Pp
Many single-letter options are inconsistent in meaning
with (or directly contradictory to) the same letter options
in other kext tools.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr kextutil 8 ,
.Xr kextfind 8 ,
.Xr kext_logging 8
