.\" $Id: mount_smbfs.8,v 1.5 2006/01/20 05:35:23 lindak Exp $
.Dd March 10, 2000
.Dt MOUNT_SMBFS 8
.Os FreeBSD
.Sh NAME
.Nm mount_smbfs
.Nd "mount a shared resource from an SMB file server"
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl N
.Op Fl o Ar options
.Op Fl d Ar mode
.Op Fl f Ar mode
.Op Fl h
.Op Fl s
.Op Fl v
.\" //[domain;][user[:password]@]server[/share]
.Pf // Oo Ar domain ;
.Oc Ns Oo Ar user Ns Oo
.Pf : Ar password
.Oc Ns @ Ns Oc Ns Ar server Ns Oo
.Pf / Ar share
.Oc
.Ar path
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
command mounts a share from a remote server using SMB/CIFS protocol.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl N
Do not ask for a password.
At run time,
.Nm
reads the
.Pa ~/Library/Preferences/nsmb.conf
file for additional configuration parameters and a password.
If no password is found,
.Nm
prompts for it.
.It Fl o 
Options passed to 
.Xr mount 2
are specified with the 
.Fl o 
option followed by a comma separated string of options. See the 
.Xr mount 8 
man page for possible options and their meanings. Additional options supported 
by the mount_smbfs are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It nobrowse
Indicate to the Carbon subsystem that this volume is not to be displayed 
to the user.
.It automounted
Set flags on the mountpoint to indicate that the volume has been mounted 
by the automounter.
.It nostreams
Don't use NTFS Streams even if they are supported by the server.
.It soft
Make the mount soft.  Fail file system calls after a number of seconds.
.It nonotification
Turn off using notifications for this volume.
.El
.It Fl f Ar mode , Fl d Ar mode
Specify permissions that should be assigned to files and directories.
The values must be specified as octal numbers.
Default value for the file mode
is taken from mount point, default value for the directory mode adds execute
permission where the file mode gives read permission.
.Pp
Note that these permissions can differ from the rights granted by SMB
server. 
.It Fl h
Prints a help message, much like the SYNOPSIS above.
.It Fl s
Force a new session to be created to the server.
.It Fl v
Prints version.
.\" //[domain;][user[:password]@]server[/share]
.It Xo
.Pf // Oo Ar domain ;
.Oc Ns Oo Ar user Ns Oo
.Pf : Ar password
.Oc Ns @ Ns Oc Ar server Ns Oo
.Pf / Ar share
.Oc
.Xc
The
.Nm
command will use
.Ar server
as the NetBIOS name of remote computer,
.Ar user
as the remote user name and
.Ar share
as the resource name on a remote server.
.Ar Domain
and/or
.Ar password
may be specified here.  If
.Ar user
is omitted the logged in user id will be used.  Omitting
.Ar share
is an error when
.Nm
is run from the command line, otherwise a browsing dialogue is presented.
.It Ar path
Path to mount point.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width ".Pa nsmb.conf" -compact
.It Pa nsmb.conf
Keeps static parameters for connections and other information.
See
.Pa man nsmb.conf
for details.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
This example shows the proper url to use to mount the share PUBLIC from
the SMB server myserver :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
mkdir /smb/public
mount -t smbfs //username:userpass@myserver/PUBLIC /smb/public

.Ed
This example shows the proper url to use to mount the share PUBLIC from
the SMB server myserver as guest:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
mkdir /smb/public
mount -t smbfs //guest:@myserver/PUBLIC /smb/public
.Ed
\fBNote:\fP You should always use the system mount command and never call mount_smbfs directly.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mount 2 ,
.Xr nsmb.conf 5 ,
.Xr mount 8 ,
.Xr umount 8
.Sh BUGS
Please report bugs to Apple.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Boris Popov Aq bp@butya.kz ,
.Aq bp@FreeBSD.org
