.\" Copyright (c) 2015-2017 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" The contents of this file constitute Original Code as defined in and
.\" are subject to the Apple Public Source License Version 1.1 (the
.\" "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the
.\" License.  Please obtain a copy of the License at
.\" http://www.apple.com/publicsource and read it before using this file.
.\" 
.\" This Original Code and all software distributed under the License are
.\" distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AND APPLE HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL SUCH WARRANTIES,
.\" INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.  Please see the
.\" License for the specific language governing rights and limitations
.\" under the License.
.\" 
.\"     @(#)newfs_apfs.8
.hlm 0
.Dd September 15, 2015
.Dt NEWFS_APFS 8
.Os "Mac OS X"
.Sh NAME
.Nm newfs_apfs
.Nd construct a new
.Tn APFS
volume
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl o Ar options
.Op Fl i
.Op Fl b Ar block-size
.Op Fl s Ar volume-size | Fl q Ar volume-quota Fl r Ar volume-reserve
.Op Fl v Ar volume-name
.Op Fl E | Fl P
.Op Fl R Ar role
.Ar special
.Nm
.Fl C
.Op Fl o Ar options
.Op Fl i
.Op Fl b Ar block-size
.Ar special
.Nm
.Fl A
.Op Fl o Ar options
.Op Fl i
.Op Fl s Ar volume-size | Fl q Ar volume-quota Fl r Ar volume-reserve
.Op Fl v Ar volume-name
.Op Fl E | Fl P
.Op Fl R Ar role
.Ar special
.Nm
.Op Fl o Ar options
.Op Fl i
.Op Fl s Ar volume-size | Fl q Ar volume-quota Fl r Ar volume-reserve
.Op Fl v Ar volume-name
.Op Fl E | Fl P
.Op Fl R Ar role
.Ar special
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
command creates a new
.Tn APFS
container on the device and/or adds a new
.Tn APFS
volume to a container.
.Pp
The first, more traditional, form of
.Nm
formats the given
.Ar special
as a container with a single volume inside it.
The second form creates a container only, with no volumes.
The third form is used to non-destructively add additional volumes inside an existing container.
The fourth form reformats an existing volume by effectively deleting and re-creating it; in this usage (only)
.Ar special
indicates a volume inside the container.
.Pp
The
.Ar special
parameter should be the path to a disk device node, such as
.Pa /dev/disk1s2 ,
although can be specified as simply
.Pa disk1s2 .
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width 17n
.It Fl b Ar block-size
The block size of the container.
All volumes within this container will use this block size.
The default is 4096 bytes.
.It Fl o Ar options
Additional (undocumented) formatting options.
.It Fl i
Creates a case-insensitive volume. This is the default on macOS.
.It Fl e
Creates a case-sensitive volume.
.It Fl U Ar uid
The UID of the root volume. Defaults to current UID.
.It Fl G Ar uid
The GID of the root volume. Defaults to current GID.
.It Fl q Ar volume-quota
Places a quota, or upper limit, on the size of the volume.  If specified then no more than this much space will be used for its content,
even if there is additional free space in the container; however it is not guaranteed that the entire quota will always be available.
By default a volume has no assigned quota.
.It Fl r Ar volume-reserve
Reserves an amount of space for this volume.  If specified it is guaranteed that at least this much space will be available for its content;
the volume may also grow beyond this size (up to its quota limit, if any) if additional free space in the container.
By default a volume has no assigned reserve.
.It Fl s Ar volume-size
The fixed size of the volume.
If specified then the volume is guaranteed that exactly this much space will be available for its content.
Setting
.Fl s
is equivalant to setting both
.Fl q
and
.Fl r
to that same value.
If not specified then the available space is dynamic and determined by the usage of other volumes within the same container (space-sharing).
.It Fl v Ar volume-name
The name of the volume.
The default is 
.Qq untitled .
.It Fl A
Add a volume to an existing container.
There is a limit to the number of volumes that may reside inside a container.
.It Fl C
Create a container only, with no volume.
.Nm
.Fl A
may be used later to format volumes inside that container.
.It Fl E
Enable volume encryption.
The volume metadata is also encrypted.
.It Fl F Ar special
Format as a Fusion device (with the secondary device specified here).
.It Fl R Ar role
Set the OS
.Qq role
of the volume within the container.  The
.Ar role
may be certain valid combinations of the following characters:
.Bl -tag -width "  " -offset "  " -compact
.It Sy b
PreBoot - will contain information used to help boot System volumes
.It Sy u
User - will contain home directory and other user data
.It Sy s
System - will contain a bootable system
.It Sy r
Recovery - will contain the RecoveryOS
.It Sy v
VM - will contain swapfiles and hibernate image
.El
.El
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Ex -std
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following formats a new container and a volume named
.Qq Macintosh
on the
.Pa /dev/disk1s2
device:
.Dl Nm Fl v Ar Macintosh Pa disk1s2
.Pp
And then this adds another volume, named
.Qq Data
with a fixed size of 100 GB, to that container:
.Dl Nm Fl v Ar Data Fl s Ar 100g Fl A Pa disk1s2
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mount_apfs 8
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
utility first appeared in OS X 10.12.
