.Dd 1/22/14               \" DATE
.Dt pluginkit 8      \" Program name and manual section number
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm pluginkit
.Nd plugin plug-in extension pluginkit
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Fl m
.Op Fl ADv
.Op Fl p protocol
.Op Fl i identifier
.Op Ar key=value
.Op Ar ...
.br
.Nm
.Op Fl ar
.Op Fl v
.Op Ar
.br
.Nm
.Fl e
.Ar election
.Op Fl p protocol
.Op Fl i identifier
.Op Ar key=value
.Op Ar ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
manages the
.Ar PlugInKit
subsystem for the current user. It can query the plug-in database and make limited interventions
for debugging and development.
.Pp
A list of flags and their descriptions:
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Differs from above in tag removed 
.It Fl A, -all-versions
Matches find all versions of a given plug-in known to the system.
By default, only the latest (highest) version is returned.
.It Fl a
Explicitly adds plugins at the file location(s) given, even if they are not normally eligible for automatic discovery.
Note that database clean-ups may eventually remove them in that case.
.It Fl e Ar election
Perform a matching operation (see -m) and apply the given user election setting to all matching plug-ins.
Elections can be "use", "ignore", and "default". Elections are applied to all plug-ins with given identifier.
.It Fl D, -duplicates
Matches find all physical instances of a given plug-in known to the system, even multiple copies with the
same version.
.It Fl i, -identifier Ar identifier
Specifies a plug-in identifier to match, a short-hand for NSExtensionIdentifier=identifier.
.It Fl m -match
Requests
.Nm
to scan all registered plug-ins for those matching the given search criteria (see DISCOVERY MATCHING below).
All matching plug-ins are returned, one per line. Add the
.Fl v
option to get more detailed output. This is exactly reproducing the functionality of PlugInKit discovery,
except that no host-specific restrictions are imposed. The
.Fl A
and
.Fl D
options affect the outcome.
.It Fl p -protocol Ar protocol
Specifies a plug-in protocol to  match, a short-hand for NSExtensionPointName=protocol.
.It Fl r
Explicitly removes plugins at the file location(s) given. Note that automatic discovery
procedures may add them back if they are still present.
.It Fl -raw
Present replies from the management daemon (pkd) in raw XML form. This is primarily useful for debugging
and for reporting full state in bug reports.
.It Fl v
Asks for more verbose operation. For matching requests, more detail is printed about each matched plug-in.
This option can be given more than once.
.El                      \" Ends the list

.Sh DISCOVERY MATCHING
During plug-in discovery, PlugInKit matches plug-ins against match criteria and delivers matching plug-ins.
Only plug-ins that match all given criteria are eligible. Criteria are expressed as "key" (must be present)
or "key=value" (key must be present and have the given value). The -i and -p arguments are shorthands for the
conventional identifier and protocol matching keys.
.p
All matching plug-ins are reduced according to the
.Fl A
and
.Fl D
options given. With
.Fl D,
all eligible plug-ins are
returned. With
.Fl A,
the last-registered (by timestamp) instance of each version is returned. By default, only
the last instance of the highest version is returned. Note that this reduction is applied after matching.
.Sh EXPLICIT CHANGES
The
.Fl a
and
.Fl r
options make changes to the system's plug-in registry. The registry is designed to operate automatically,
and will update on its own as applications are installed, removed, and discovered. The options available through
.Nm
are intended only for limited manipulation during plug-in development and for certain maintenance tasks.
They cannot make permanent alterations of the automatic registry state.
.Pp
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT      \" May not be needed
.\" .Bl -tag -width "ENV_VAR_1" -indent \" ENV_VAR_1 is width of the string ENV_VAR_1
.\" .It Ev ENV_VAR_1
.\" Description of ENV_VAR_1
.\" .It Ev ENV_VAR_2
.\" Description of ENV_VAR_2
.\" .El                      
.\".Sh FILES                \" File used or created by the topic of the man page
.\".Bl -tag -width "/Users/joeuser/Library/really_long_file_name" -compact
.\".It Pa /usr/share/file_name
.\"FILE_1 description
.\".It Pa /Users/joeuser/Library/really_long_file_name
.\".El                      \" Ends the list
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS       \" May not be needed
.\" .Bl -diag
.\" .It Diagnostic Tag
.\" Diagnostic informtion here.
.\" .It Diagnostic Tag
.\" Diagnostic informtion here.
.\" .El
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.Xr pkd 8 ,
.Xr launchd 8
.\" .Sh BUGS              \" Document known, unremedied bugs
.Sh HISTORY           \" Document history if command behaves in a unique manner
The
.Nm
command first appeared in OS X 10.9.
