.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.Dd 2/27/07               \" DATE 
.Dt taskgated 8      \" Program name and manual section number 
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm taskgated
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line. 
.Nd task_for_pid access control daemon
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Op Fl s                 \" [-abcd]
.Op Fl t Ar timeout      \" [-t timeout]
.Op Fl i Ar pid          \" [-i pid]
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
is a system daemon that implements a policy for the task_for_pid system service.
When the kernel is asked for the task port of a process, and preliminary access control
checks pass, it invokes this daemon (via launchd) to make the decision.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Differs from above in tag removed 
.It Fl s
Allow signed applications marked as "safe" to have free access to
task ports, without having to pass an authorization check. Note that such callers
must be marked both allowed and safe.
.It Fl t Ar timeout
The daemon will quit after that many seconds of inactivity. It will be relaunched
by launchd as needed. A timeout of zero can be specified to make the daemon quit
after servicing each request, but a small positive timeout is better for performance.
.It Fl i Ar pid
Inject the service port of
.Nm
into the process with the given pid, rather than relying on launchd to install it
system-wide. This is for testing only, and requires the launchd configuration for
.Nm
to be removed.
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Pp
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT      \" May not be needed
.\" .Bl -tag -width "ENV_VAR_1" -indent \" ENV_VAR_1 is width of the string ENV_VAR_1
.\" .It Ev ENV_VAR_1
.\" Description of ENV_VAR_1
.\" .It Ev ENV_VAR_2
.\" Description of ENV_VAR_2
.\" .El 
.Sh AUTHORIZATION RIGHTS
.Bl -tag -width system.privilege.taskport -compact
.It Pa system.privilege.taskport
Authorization right used to check access of allowed (but not safe) callers.
.El
.Sh INFO KEYS
.Bl -tag -width SecTaskAccess
.It Pa SecTaskAccess
A value of "allowed" is required for any program that wants
access to task ports. A value of "safe" bypasses authorization checks if so configured.
Code must be signed by any system-trusted signing authority.
.El
.Sh FILES                \" File used or created by the topic of the man page
.Bl -tag -width "/etc/authorization" -compact
.It Pa /etc/authorization
to configure the authorization used.
.It Pa /System/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.apple.taskgated
startup configuration file for
.Nm
.
.El                      \" Ends the list
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS       \" May not be needed
.\" .Bl -diag
.\" .It Diagnostic Tag
.\" Diagnostic informtion here.
.\" .It Diagnostic Tag
.\" Diagnostic informtion here.
.\" .El
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.Xr security 1 , 
.Xr launchd 8
.\" .Sh BUGS              \" Document known, unremedied bugs 
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
was first introduced in Mac OS 10.5 (Leopard).
.Pp
Procmod and procview support (-p) was removed in 10.11.
.Pp
Certain software updates of Mac OS 10.4 (Tiger) introduced the convention
requiring membership in the procmod or procview groups to control task port
access. Before that, any process could obtain the task port of any other process
with the same user-id.
