.Dd 14 November 2005
.Dt APPLESINGLE 1
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME
.Nm applesingle ,
.Nm binhex ,
.Nm macbinary
.Nd encode and decode files
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm <tool>
probe
.Ar
.Nm <tool>
.Op decode
.Op Fl c
.Op Fl fv
.Op Fl C Ar dir
.Op Fl o Ar outfile
.Op Ar
.Nm <tool>
.Fl h | Fl V
.Pp
.Nm
encode
.Op Fl cfv
.Op Fl s Ar suf
.Op Fl C Ar dir
.Op Fl o Ar outfile
.Ar
.Nm binhex
encode
.Op Fl R
.Op Fl cfv
.Op Fl s Ar suf
.Op Fl C Ar dir
.Op Fl o Ar outfile
.Ar
.Nm macbinary
encode
.Op Fl t Ar 1-3
.Op Fl cfv
.Op Fl s Ar suf
.Op Fl C Ar dir
.Op Fl o Ar outfile
.Ar
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm applesingle ,
.Nm binhex ,
.Nm macbinary
are implemented as a single tool with multiple names.  All invocations
support the three verbs
.Sy encode ,
.Sy decode ,
and
.Sy probe .
.Pp
If multiple files are passed to
.Sy probe ,
the exit status will be non-zero only if
.Sy all
files contain data in the specified encoding.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Fl f , -force
perform the operation even if the output file already exists
.It Fl h , Fl -help
display version and usage, then quit
.It Fl v , -verbose
be verbose
.It Fl V , -version
display version, then quit
.It Fl c , -pipe , -from-stdin , -to-stdout
For
.Sy decode ,
read encoded data from the standand input.  For
.Sy encode ,
write encoded data to the standard output.  Currently, "plain" data must
be written to and from specified filenames (see also
.Xr mount_fdesc 8 Ns ).
.It Fl C , -directory Ar dir
create output files in
.Ar dir
.It Fl o , -rename Ar name
Use
.Ar name
for output, overriding any stored or default name.  For
.Sy encode ,
the appropriate suffix will be added to
.Ar name .
.Fl o
implies only one file to be encoded or decoded.
.It Fl s , -suffix Ar .suf
override the default suffix for the given encoding
.It Fl R , -no-runlength-encoding
don't use BinHex runlength compression when encoding
.It Fl t , -type Ar 1-3
Specify MacBinary encoding type.  Type 1 is undesirable because it has
neither a checksum nor a signature and is thus difficult to recognize.
.El
.Pp
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
In general, the tool returns a non-zero exit status if it fails.
.\" .Sh BUGS              \" Document known, unremedied bugs
