.lf 1 stdin
.TH LDAPCOMPARE 1 "2011/11/24" "OpenLDAP 2.4.28"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-2011 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldapcompare \- LDAP compare tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ldapcompare
[\c
.BR \-n ]
[\c
.BR \-v ]
[\c
.BR \-z ]
[\c
.BR \-M [ M ]]
[\c
.BI \-d \ debuglevel\fR]
[\c
.BI \-D \ binddn\fR]
[\c
.BR \-W ]
[\c
.BI \-w \ passwd\fR]
[\c
.BI \-y \ passwdfile\fR]
[\c
.BI \-H \ ldapuri\fR]
[\c
.BI \-h \ ldaphost\fR]
[\c
.BI \-p \ ldapport\fR]
[\c
.BR \-P \ { 2 \||\| 3 }]
[\c
.BR \-e \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]]
[\c
.BR \-E \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]]
[\c
.BI \-O \ security-properties\fR]
[\c
.BR \-I ]
[\c
.BR \-Q ]
[\c
.BI \-U \ authcid\fR]
[\c
.BI \-R \ realm\fR]
[\c
.BR \-x ]
[\c
.BI \-X \ authzid\fR]
[\c
.BI \-Y \ mech\fR]
[\c
.BR \-Z [ Z ]]
.IR DN
{\c
.BI attr: value
|
.BI attr:: b64value\fR}
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I ldapcompare
is a shell-accessible interface to the
.BR ldap_compare_ext (3)
library call.
.LP
.B ldapcompare
opens a connection to an LDAP server, binds, and performs a compare
using specified parameters.   The \fIDN\fP should be a distinguished
name in the directory.  \fIAttr\fP should be a known attribute.  If
followed by one colon, the assertion \fIvalue\fP should be provided
as a string.  If followed by two colons, the base64 encoding of the
value is provided.  The result code of the compare is provided as
the exit code and, unless ran with \fB\-z\fP, the program prints
TRUE, FALSE, or UNDEFINED on standard output.
.LP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-n
Show what would be done, but don't actually perform the compare.  Useful for
debugging in conjunction with \fB\-v\fP.
.TP
.B \-v
Run in verbose mode, with many diagnostics written to standard output.
.TP
.B \-z
Run in quiet mode, no output is written.  You must check the return
status.  Useful in shell scripts.
.TP
.BR \-M [ M ]
Enable manage DSA IT control.
.B \-MM
makes control critical.
.TP
.BI \-d \ debuglevel
Set the LDAP debugging level to \fIdebuglevel\fP.
.B ldapcompare
must be compiled with LDAP_DEBUG defined for this option to have any effect.
.TP
.B \-x 
Use simple authentication instead of SASL.
.TP
.BI \-D \ binddn
Use the Distinguished Name \fIbinddn\fP to bind to the LDAP directory.
For SASL binds, the server is expected to ignore this value.
.TP
.B \-W
Prompt for simple authentication.
This is used instead of specifying the password on the command line.
.TP
.BI \-w \ passwd
Use \fIpasswd\fP as the password for simple authentication.
.TP
.BI \-y \ passwdfile
Use complete contents of \fIpasswdfile\fP as the password for
simple authentication.
Note that \fIcomplete\fP means that any leading or trailing whitespaces,
including newlines, will be considered part of the password and,
unlike other software, they will not be stripped.
As a consequence, passwords stored in files by commands like
.BR echo (1)
will not behave as expected, since
.BR echo (1)
by default appends a trailing newline to the echoed string.
The recommended portable way to store a cleartext password in a file
for use with this option is to use
.BR slappasswd (8)
with \fI{CLEARTEXT}\fP as hash and the option \fB\-n\fP.
.TP
.BI \-H \ ldapuri
Specify URI(s) referring to the ldap server(s); only the protocol/host/port
fields are allowed; a list of URI, separated by whitespace or commas
is expected.
.TP
.BI \-h \ ldaphost
Specify an alternate host on which the ldap server is running.
Deprecated in favor of \fB\-H\fP.
.TP
.BI \-p \ ldapport
Specify an alternate TCP port where the ldap server is listening.
Deprecated in favor of \fB\-H\fP.
.TP
.BR \-P \ { 2 \||\| 3 }
Specify the LDAP protocol version to use.
.TP
.BR \-e \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]
.TP
.BR \-E \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]

Specify general extensions with \fB\-e\fP and search extensions with \fB\-E\fP.
\'\fB!\fP\' indicates criticality.

General extensions:
.nf
  [!]assert=<filter>   (an RFC 4515 Filter)
  [!]authzid=<authzid> ("dn:<dn>" or "u:<user>")
  [!]manageDSAit
  [!]noop
  ppolicy
  [!]postread[=<attrs>]        (a comma-separated attribute list)
  [!]preread[=<attrs>] (a comma-separated attribute list)
  abandon, cancel (SIGINT sends abandon/cancel; not really controls)
.fi

Search extensions:
.nf
  [!]domainScope                               (domain scope)
  [!]mv=<filter>                               (matched values filter)
  [!]pr=<size>[/prompt|noprompt]       (paged results/prompt)
  [!]sss=[\-]<attr[:OID]>[/[\-]<attr[:OID]>...]  (server side sorting)
  [!]subentries[=true|false]           (subentries)
  [!]sync=ro[/<cookie>]                        (LDAP Sync refreshOnly)
          rp[/<cookie>][/<slimit>]     (LDAP Sync refreshAndPersist)
.fi
.TP
.BI \-O \ security-properties
Specify SASL security properties.
.TP
.B \-I
Enable SASL Interactive mode.  Always prompt.  Default is to prompt
only as needed.
.TP
.B \-Q
Enable SASL Quiet mode.  Never prompt.
.TP
.BI \-U \ authcid
Specify the authentication ID for SASL bind. The form of the ID
depends on the actual SASL mechanism used.
.TP
.BI \-R \ realm
Specify the realm of authentication ID for SASL bind. The form of the realm
depends on the actual SASL mechanism used.
.TP
.BI \-X \ authzid
Specify the requested authorization ID for SASL bind.
.I authzid
must be one of the following formats:
.BI dn: "<distinguished name>"
or
.BI u: <username>
.TP
.BI \-Y \ mech
Specify the SASL mechanism to be used for authentication. If it's not
specified, the program will choose the best mechanism the server knows.
.TP
.BR \-Z [ Z ]
Issue StartTLS (Transport Layer Security) extended operation. If you use
\fB\-ZZ\fP, the command will require the operation to be successful.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
    ldapcompare "uid=babs,dc=example,dc=com"  sn:Jensen
    ldapcompare "uid=babs,dc=example,dc=com"  sn::SmVuc2Vu
.fi
are all equivalent.
.SH LIMITATIONS
Requiring the value be passed on the command line is limiting
and introduces some security concerns.  The command should support
a mechanism to specify the location (file name or URL) to read
the value from.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ldap.conf (5),
.BR ldif (5),
.BR ldap (3),
.BR ldap_compare_ext (3)
.SH AUTHOR
The OpenLDAP Project <http://www.openldap.org/>
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.lf 1 ./../Project
.\" Shared Project Acknowledgement Text
.B "OpenLDAP Software"
is developed and maintained by The OpenLDAP Project <http://www.openldap.org/>.
.B "OpenLDAP Software"
is derived from University of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.  
.lf 230 stdin
