.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.Dd August 27, 2004
.Dt LOCALE 1
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME
.Nm locale
.Nd display locale settings
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl a|m
.Nm
.Op Fl ck
.Ar name 
.Op ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
displays information about the current locale, or a list of all available 
locales.
.Pp
When
.Nm
is run with no arguments,
it will display the current source of each locale category.
.Pp
When
.Nm
is given the name of a category,
it acts as if it had been given each keyword in that category.
For each keyword it is given, the current value
is displayed.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Fl a
Lists all public locales.
.It Fl c Ar name ...
Lists the category name before each keyword,
unless it is the same category as the previously displayed keyword.
.It Fl k Ar name ...
Displays the name of each keyword prior to its value.
.It Fl m
Lists all available public charmaps.
Darwin locales do not support charmaps, so list all CODESETs instead.
.El
.Pp
.Sh OPERANDS
The following operand is supported:
.Pp
.Ar name
is the name of a keyword or category to display.  A list of all keywords
and categories can be shown with the following command:
.Bd -literal
locale -ck LC_ALL
.Ed
.Pp
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width "LC_MESSAGES"
.It Ev LANG
Used as a substitute for any unset 
.Ev LC_* 
variable.  If
.Ev LANG
is unset, it will act as if set to "C".  If any of
.Ev LANG
or
.Ev LC_*
are set to invalid values,
.Nm
acts as if they are all unset.
.It Ev LC_ALL
Will override the setting of all other
.Ev LC_*
variables.
.It Ev LC_COLLATE
Sets the locale for the LC_COLLATE category.
.It Ev LC_CTYPE
Sets the locale for the LC_CTYPE category.
.It Ev LC_MESSAGES
Sets the locale for the LC_MESSAGES category.
.It Ev LC_MONETARY
Sets the locale for the LC_MONETARY category.
.It Ev LC_NUMERIC
Sets the locale for the LC_NUMERIC category.
.It Ev LC_TIME
Sets the locale for the LC_TIME category.
.El                      
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.Xr localedef 1 , 
.Xr localeconv 3 ,
.Xr nl_langinfo 3 ,
.Xr setlocale 3
.Sh STANDARDS
The
.Nm
utility conforms to IEEE Std 1003.1-2001 (``POSIX.1'').
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
appeared in Mac OS X 10.4
