.Dd March 2, 2011 
.Dt pkgutil 1
.Os Mac OS X
.\"																				NAME 
.Sh NAME
.Nm pkgutil
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line. 
.Nd Query and manipulate Mac OS X Installer packages and receipts.
.\"																				SYNOPSIS 
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op options
.Op commands
.\"																				DESCRIPTION 
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
reads and manipulates Mac OS X Installer flat packages, and provides access to the
.Dq receipt
database used by the Installer. Options are processed first, and affect the operation of
all commands. Multiple commands are performed sequentially in the given order.
.Pp
.Em The files and directories where receipts are stored are subject to change. Always use pkgutil to query or modify them.
.\"																				OPTIONS 
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag
.It Cm "--help, -h"
A brief summary of commands and usage.
.It Cm "--force, -f"
Don't ask for confirmation before performing a potentially destructive or ambiguous operation.
.It Cm "--verbose, -v"
Output in a "human-readable" format with extra headers, footers, indentation,
and other contextual information.
.It Cm --volume Ar path
Perform all operations on the specified volume or home directory.
The root volume '/' will be used if unspecified.
.It Cm --edit-pkg Ar package-id
Specifies an existing receipt to be modified in-place by 
.Cm --learn .
.It Cm --only-files
List only files (not directories) in  
.Cm --files
listing.
.It Cm --only-dirs
List only directories (not files) in  
.Cm --files
listing.
.It Cm --regexp
Try to match \fIpackage-id\fP arguments as a regular expression if an exact match isn't found. See 
.Xr egrep 1
and
.Xr re_format 7
for syntax.
.El
.\"																				DATABASE COMMANDS 
.Sh RECEIPT DATABASE COMMANDS
.Bl -tag
.It Cm "--packages, --pkgs"
List all installed package IDs on the specified
.Cm --volume .
.It Cm --pkgs-plist
List all installed package IDs on the specified
.Cm --volume 
in Mac OS X
.Xr plist 5
format.
.It Cm "--pkgs=REGEXP"
List all installed package IDs matching
.Ar REGEXP
on the specified
.Cm --volume .
The equal sign (=) is \fBrequired\fP or the search string will be ignored and all package IDs will be returned.
Be mindful of escaping characters in both your shell and the regular expression.
(Eg, 'pkgutil --pkgs=\\\\.D' searches for package IDs matching the literal '.D' after escaping the backslash
from your shell and then the dot from the regex to make it literal.) Regular expressions are more
complex than simple shell globbing. A dot (.) matches any character, while '*' matches zero or more of the previous
character. See
.Xr re_format 7
for a complete description of the syntax.
.It Cm --files Ar package-id
List all of the files installed under the \fIpackage-id\fP.
.It Cm --export-plist Ar package-id
Print all receipt information about the specified \fIpackage-id\fP in the standard Mac OS X 
.Xr plist 5
format.
.It Cm --pkg-info Ar package-id
Print extended information about the specified \fIpackage-id\fP.
.It Cm --pkg-info-plist Ar package-id
Print extended information about the specified \fIpackage-id\fP in Mac OS X
.Xr plist 5
format.
.It Cm --forget Ar package-id
Discard all receipt data about \fIpackage-id\fP, but do not touch the installed files.
\fBDO NOT\fP use this command from an installer package script to fix broken package design.
.It Cm --learn Ar path
Update the ACLs of the given
.Ar path
in the receipt identified by
.Cm --edit-pkg .
This affects subsequent repair operations on the package. This command 
.Em cannot
be used from package postinstall scripts, but if a postinstall script changes the ACLs
on the installed files, the receipt is automatically be updated to reflect those changes.
This command will 
.Em not
update the filesystem permissions in the receipt.
.It Cm --pkg-groups Ar package-id
List all of the package groups this \fIpackage-id\fP is a member of.
.It Cm --groups
List all of the package groups on the specified
.Cm --volume .
.It Cm --groups-plist
List all of the package groups on the specified
.Cm --volume 
in Mac OS X
.Xr plist 5
format.
.It Cm --group-pkgs Ar group-id
List all of the packages that are members of this \fIgroup-id\fP.
.It Cm --file-info Ar path
Show the metadata known about \fIpath\fP.
.It Cm --file-info-plist Ar path
Show the metadata known about \fIpath\fP in Mac OS X
.Xr plist 5
format.
.El
.\"																				FILE COMMANDS 
.Sh FILE COMMANDS
.Bl -tag
.It Cm --expand Ar pkg-path dir-path
Expand the flat package at
.Ar pkg-path
into a new directory specified by 
.Ar dir-path .
.It Cm --flatten Ar dir-path pkg-path
Flatten the
.Ar dir-path 
into a new flat package created at 
.Ar pkg-path .
The directory to be flattened \fBmust\fP have the proper contents and layout for a flat package.
This is not intended as a substitute for
.Xr pkgbuild 1 .
.It Cm --bom Ar path
Extract any BOM files from the flat pkg at \fIpath\fP into /tmp and return the filename(s).
Suggested use is as an argument to 
.Xr lsbom 8 .
Eg, "lsbom `pkgutil --bom \fIpath\fP`". Note that some flat package archives 
may contain no BOM, one BOM, or several BOMs.
.It Cm --payload-files Ar path
List the files archived within the payload of the uninstalled flat package(s) contained at \fIpath\fP.
This should be equivalent to "lsbom -s `pkgutil --bom \fIpath\fP`". Note that flat package
archives may contain more than one package, and the destination location for the uninstalled package(s)
is unknown to this command.
.It Cm --check-signature Ar pkg-path
Check the validity and trust of the signature on the package at
.Ar pkg-path .
In addition to the status of the signature, the associated certificate chain will be shown.
.El
.\"																				SEE ALSO 
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Bl -item -compact
.It
.Xr installer 8
.It
.Xr pkgbuild 1
.It
.Xr productbuild 1
.El
