.\""Copyright (c) 2002-2019, Apple Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.Dd January 15, 2019
.Dt PLUTIL 1
.Os "macOS"
.Sh NAME
.Nm plutil
.Nd property list utility
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op command_option
.Op other_options
.Ar file
 ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
can be used to check the syntax of property list files, or convert a plist file from one format to another.  Specifying - as an input file reads from stdin.
.Pp
The first argument indicates the operation to perform, one of:
.Bl -tag -width "-convert fmt"
.It Fl help
Show the usage information for the command and exit.
.It Fl p
Print the property list in a human-readable fashion. The output format is not stable and not designed for machine parsing. The purpose of this command is to be able to easily read the contents of a plist file, no matter what format it is in.
.It Fl lint
Check the named property list files for syntax errors.
This is the default command option if none is specified.
.It Fl convert Ar fmt
Convert the named 
.Ar file
to the indicated format and write back to the file system.  If the file can't be loaded due to invalid syntax, the operation fails. This is the only option to support 
.Sy objc
.Sy swift 
formats.
.It Fl convert Ar objc Fl header
Converts the named file to Obj-C literal syntax and creates a 
.Ar .h
file. Useful for first time conversions to literal syntax and only supported with the 
.Sy objc
format.
.It Fl insert Ar keypath Fl Ar type Ar value
Insert a value into the property list before writing it out.
.It Fl replace Ar keypath Fl Ar type Ar value
Overwrite an existing value in the property list before writing it out.
.It Fl remove Ar keypath
Removes the value at
.Ar keypath
from the property list before writing it out.
.It Fl extract Ar keypath Ar fmt
Outputs the value at
.Ar keypath
in the property list as a new plist of type
.Ar fmt .
.El
.Pp
There are a few additional options:
.Bl -tag -width "-e extension"
.It Fl -
Specifies that all further arguments are file names
.It Fl s
Don't print anything on success.
.It Fl r
For JSON, add whitespace and indentation to make the output more human-readable and sort the keys like
.Sy -p ,
does.
.It Fl o Ar path
Specify an alternate path name for the result of the
.Ar -convert
operation; this option is only useful with a single file to be converted.  Specifying - as the path outputs to stdout.
.It Fl e Ar extension
Specify an alternate extension for converted files, and the output file names are otherwise the same.
.El
.Sh ARGUMENTS
.Ar fmt
is one of:
.Bl -tag -width "binary1" -compact -offset indent
.It Sy xml1
for version 1 of the XML plist format
.It Sy binary1
for version 1 of the binary plist format
.It Sy json
for the JSON format
.It Sy swift
to convert from plist to swift literal syntax
.It Sy objc
to convert from plist to Obj-C literal syntax
.El
.Pp
.Ar keypath
is a key-value coding key path, with one extension:
a numerical path component applied to an array will act on the object at that index in the array or insert it into the array if the numerical path component is the last one in the key path.
.Pp
.Ar type
is one of:
.Bl -tag -width "integer " -compact -offset -indent
.It Fl bool
YES if passed "YES" or "true", otherwise NO
.It Fl integer
any valid 64 bit integer
.It Fl float
any valid 64 bit float
.It Fl string
UTF8 encoded string
.It Fl date
date in XML property list format, not supported if outputting JSON
.It Fl data
a base-64 encoded string
.It Fl xml
an XML property list, useful for inserting compound values
.It Fl json
JSON fragment, useful for inserting compound values
.El
.Pp
.Ar value
will be assigned to the
.Ar keypath
specified with the
.Fl insert
or
.Fl replace
flags.
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
The
.Nm
command exits 0 on success, and 1 on failure.
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.Xr plist 5
.Sh STANDARDS
The 
.Nm
command obeys no one's rules but its own.
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
command first appeared in macOS 10.2.
