.\"
.\" ppdc man page for CUPS.
.\"
.\" Copyright © 2007-2019 by Apple Inc.
.\" Copyright © 1997-2007 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\" Licensed under Apache License v2.0.  See the file "LICENSE" for more
.\" information.
.\"
.TH ppdc 1 "CUPS" "26 April 2019" "Apple Inc."
.SH NAME
ppdc \- cups ppd compiler (deprecated)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ppdc
[
\fB\-D \fIname\fR[\fB=\fIvalue\fR]
] [
.B \-I
.I include-directory
] [
.B \-c
.I message-catalog
] [
.B \-d
.I output-directory
] [
.B \-l
.I language(s)
] [
.B \-m
] [
.B \-t
] [
.B \-v
] [
.B \-z
] [
.B \-\-cr
] [
.B \-\-crlf
] [
.B \-\-lf
]
.I source-file
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBppdc\fR compiles PPDC source files into one or more PPD files.
\fBThis program is deprecated and will be removed in a future release of CUPS.\fR
.SH OPTIONS
\fBppdc\fR supports the following options:
.TP 5
\fB\-D \fIname\fR[\fB=\fIvalue\fR]
Sets the named variable for use in the source file.
It is equivalent to using the \fI#define\fR directive in the source file.
.TP 5
\fB\-I \fIinclude-directory\fR
Specifies an alternate include directory.
Multiple \fI-I\fR options can be supplied to add additional directories.
.TP 5
\fB\-c \fImessage-catalog\fR
Specifies a single message catalog file in GNU gettext (filename.po) or Apple strings (filename.strings) format to be used for localization.
.TP 5
\fB\-d \fIoutput-directory\fR
Specifies the output directory for PPD files.
The default output directory is "ppd".
.TP 5
\fB\-l \fIlanguage(s)\fR
Specifies one or more languages to use when localizing the PPD file(s).
The default language is "en" (English).
Separate multiple languages with commas, for example "de_DE,en_UK,es_ES,es_MX,es_US,fr_CA,fr_FR,it_IT" will create PPD files with German, UK English, Spanish (Spain, Mexico, and US), French (France and Canada), and Italian languages in each file.
.TP 5
.B \-m
Specifies that the output filename should be based on the ModelName value instead of FileName or PCFilenName.
.TP 5
.B \-t
Specifies that PPD files should be tested instead of generated.
.TP 5
.B \-v
Specifies verbose output, basically a running status of which files are being loaded or written.
.B \-z
Generates compressed PPD files (filename.ppd.gz).
The default is to generate uncompressed PPD files.
.TP 5
\fB\-\-cr\fR
.TP 5
\fB\-\-crlf\fR
.TP 5
\fB\-\-lf\fR
Specifies the line ending to use - carriage return, carriage return and line feed, or line feed alone.
The default is to use the line feed character alone.
.SH NOTES
PPD files are deprecated and will no longer be supported in a future feature release of CUPS.
Printers that do not support IPP can be supported using applications such as
.BR ippeveprinter (1).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ppdhtml (1),
.BR ppdi (1),
.BR ppdmerge (1),
.BR ppdpo (1),
.BR ppdcfile (5),
CUPS Online Help (http://localhost:631/help)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \[co] 2007-2019 by Apple Inc.
