.Dd 7/10/05
.Dt sips 1
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME
.Nm sips
.Nd scriptable image processing system.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Ar image-functions
.Ar imagefile
.Ar ...
.Nm
.Op Ar profile-functions
.Ar profile
.Ar ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This tool is used to query or modify raster image files and ColorSync ICC profiles.
Its functionality can also be used through the "Image Events" AppleScript suite.
It also supports executing JavaScript to either modify or generate images.
.Pp
.Sh FUNCTIONS
.Pp
Profile query functions:
.Bl -tag -width xxxx -compact
.Pp
.It Fl g Ar key 
.It Fl -getProperty Ar key 
Output the property value for key to stdout.
.Pp
.It Fl X Ar tag Ar tagFile 
.It Fl -extractTag Ar tag Ar tagFile 
Write a profile tag element to tagFile.
.Pp
.It Fl -verify 
Verify any profile problems and log output to stdout.
.Pp
.It Fl 1 
.It Fl -oneLine 
Output for each file on a single line with tab delimiter
.Pp
.El
Image query functions:
.Bl -tag -width xxxx -compact
.Pp
.It Fl g Ar key 
.It Fl -getProperty Ar key 
Output the property value for key to stdout.
.Pp
.It Fl x Ar profile 
.It Fl -extractProfile Ar profile 
Get the embedded profile from image and write it to profile.
.Pp
.It Fl 1 
.It Fl -oneLine 
Output for each file on a single line with tab delimiter
.Pp
.El
Profile modification functions:
.Bl -tag -width xxxx -compact
.Pp
.It Fl s Ar key Ar value 
.It Fl -setProperty Ar key Ar value 
Set a property value for key to value.
.Pp
.It Fl d Ar key 
.It Fl -deleteProperty Ar key 
Remove a property value for key.
.Pp
.It Fl -deleteTag Ar tag 
Remove the tag element from a profile.
.Pp
.It Fl -copyTag Ar srcTag Ar dstTag 
Copy the srcTag element of a profile to dstTag.
.Pp
.It Fl -loadTag Ar tag Ar tagFile 
Set the tag element of a profile to the contents of tagFile.
.Pp
.It Fl -repair 
Repair any profile problems and log output to stdout.
.Pp
.It Fl o Ar file-or-directory 
.It Fl -out Ar file-or-directory 
.Pp
.El
Image modification functions:
.Bl -tag -width xxxx -compact
.Pp
.It Fl s Ar key Ar value 
.It Fl -setProperty Ar key Ar value 
Set a property value for key to value.
.Pp
.It Fl d Ar key 
.It Fl -deleteProperty Ar key 
Remove a property value for key.
.Pp
.It Fl e Ar profile 
.It Fl -embedProfile Ar profile 
Embed profile in image.
.Pp
.It Fl E Ar profile 
.It Fl -embedProfileIfNone Ar profile 
Embed profile in image only if image doen't have a profile.
.Pp
.It Fl m Ar profile 
.It Fl -matchTo Ar profile 
Color match image to profile.
.Pp
.It Fl M Ar profile Ar intent 
.It Fl -matchToWithIntent Ar profile Ar intent 
Color match image to profile with rendering intent perceptual | relative | saturation | absolute.
.Pp
.It Fl -deleteColorManagementProperties 
Delete color management properties in TIFF, PNG, and EXIF dictionaries.
.Pp
.It Fl r Ar degreesCW 
.It Fl -rotate Ar degreesCW 
.Pp
.It Fl f Ar horizontal|vertical 
.It Fl -flip Ar horizontal|vertical 
.Pp
.It Fl c Ar pixelsH Ar pixelsW 
.It Fl -cropToHeightWidth Ar pixelsH Ar pixelsW 
Crop image to fit specified size.
.Pp
.It Fl -cropOffset Ar offsetY Ar offsetH 
Crop offset from top left corner.
.Pp
.It Fl p Ar pixelsH Ar pixelsW 
.It Fl -padToHeightWidth Ar pixelsH Ar pixelsW 
Pad image with pixels to fit specified size.
.Pp
.It Fl -padColor Ar hexcolor 
Use this color when padding. White=FFFFFF, Red=FF0000, Default=Black=000000
.Pp
.It Fl z Ar pixelsH Ar pixelsW 
.It Fl -resampleHeightWidth Ar pixelsH Ar pixelsW 
Resample image at specified size. Image apsect ratio may be altered.
.Pp
.It Fl -resampleWidth Ar pixelsW 
Resample image to specified width.
.Pp
.It Fl -resampleHeight Ar pixelsH 
Resample image to specified height.
.Pp
.It Fl Z Ar pixelsWH 
.It Fl -resampleHeightWidthMax Ar pixelsWH 
Resample image so height and width aren't greater than specified size.
.Pp
.It Fl i 
.It Fl -addIcon 
Add a Finder icon to image file.
.Pp
.It Fl -optimizeColorForSharing 
Optimize color for sharing.
.Pp
.It Fl o Ar file-or-directory 
.It Fl -out Ar file-or-directory 
.Pp
.It Fl j Ar file 
.It Fl -js Ar file 
Execute JavaScript file
.Pp
.El
Other functions:
.Bl -tag -width xxxx -compact
.Pp
.It Fl -debug 
Enable debugging output
.Pp
.It Fl h 
.It Fl -help 
Show help
.Pp
.It Fl H 
.It Fl -helpProperties 
Show help for properties
.Pp
.It Fl -man 
Generate man pages
.Pp
.It Fl v 
.It Fl -version 
Show the version
.Pp
.It Fl -formats 
Show the read/write formats
.Pp
.El
.Sh JavaScript
HTML Canvas objects can be created and used to create a 2D drawing context.
The commands for drawing into the context are well documented elsewhere.
This section will describe the sips global object and other interesting classes.
.Pp
Global variable (sips) properties
.Bl -tag -width xxxx -compact
.It images
Valid images passed as arguments converted into an array of Image objects
.It arguments
Arguments passed into the program as an array of strings
.It size
Recommended size for output. Setting the crop or resample flags will set this value.
.It longestEdge
If specified, the value of the -Z/--resampleHeightWidthMax option. [default: 0]
.It outputPath
Output directory [default: current directory]
.El
.Pp
Image Object
.Bl -tag -width xxxx -compact
.It name
Name of image
.It size
Size of image (pixels)
.It properties
Image properties
.It getProperty(name)
Return the image property for name, if any.
.It sizeToFitLongestEdge(length)
Return the size that will contain the image with the longest edge set to length. Maintains aspect ratio.
.El
.Pp
Output Object
.Bl -tag -width xxxx -compact
.It new Output(context, name[, type])
Output the context to disk with name and optional type (extension or UTI).
.It addToQueue()
Adds the output to the queue to be written to disk.
.El
.Pp
Functions
.Bl -tag -width xxxx -compact
.It print(str)
Output to standard output. Equivalent to console.log(str).
.El
.Pp
.Sh OPTIONS
The commands --getProperty, --setProperty, and --deleteProperty
can use one of the following keys as a parameter.
.Pp
Special property keys:
.Bl -tag -width xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx -compact
.It all
binary data
.It allxml
binary data
.El
.Pp
Image property keys:
.Bl -tag -width xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx -compact
.It dpiHeight
float
.It dpiWidth
float
.It pixelHeight
integer (read-only)
.It pixelWidth
integer (read-only)
.It typeIdentifier
string (read-only)
.It format
string jpeg | tiff | png | gif | jp2 | pict | bmp | qtif | psd | sgi | tga
.It formatOptions
string default | [low|normal|high|best|<percent>] | [lzw|packbits]
.It space
string (read-only)
.It samplesPerPixel
integer (read-only)
.It bitsPerSample
integer (read-only)
.It creation
string (read-only)
.It make
string
.It model
string
.It software
string (read-only)
.It description
string
.It copyright
string
.It artist
string
.It profile
binary data
.It hasAlpha
boolean (read-only)
.El
.Pp
Profile property keys:
.Bl -tag -width xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx -compact
.It description
utf8 string
.It size
integer (read-only)
.It cmm
string
.It version
string
.It class
string (read-only)
.It space
string (read-only)
.It pcs
string (read-only)
.It creation
string
.It platform
string
.It quality
string normal | draft | best
.It deviceManufacturer
string
.It deviceModel
integer
.It deviceAttributes0
integer
.It deviceAttributes1
integer
.It renderingIntent
string perceptual | relative | saturation | absolute
.It creator
string
.It copyright
string
.It md5
string (read-only)
.El
.Pp
