.\" Copyright (c) 2016, Apple Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.Dd 2 May 2016
.Dt ZPRINT 1
.Os "Mac OS X"
.Sh NAME
.Nm zprint
.Nd show information about kernel zones
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl cdhlLstw
.Op Ar name
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
displays data about Mach zones (allocation buckets).  By default,
.Nm
will print out information about all Mach zones.  If the optional
.Ar name
is specified,
.Nm
will print information about each zone for which
.Ar name
is a substring of the zone's name.
.Pp
.Nm
interprets the following options:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "disable -"
.\" -c
.It Fl c
(Default)
.Nm
prints zone info in columns. Long zone names are truncated with
.Ql \&$ ,
and spaces are replaced with
.Ql \&. ,
to allow for sorting by column.  Pageable and collectible zones are shown with
.Ql \&P
and
.Ql \&C
on the far right, respectively.  Zones with preposterously large maximum sizes
are shown with
.Ql ----
in the max size and max num elts fields.
.\" -d
.It Fl d
Display deltas over time, showing any zones that have achieved a new maximum
current allocation size during the interval.  If the total allocation sizes are
being displayed for the zones in question, it will also display the deltas if
the total allocations have doubled.
.\" -h
.It Fl h
(Default) Shows headings for the columns printed with the
.Fl c
option.  It may be useful to override this option when sorting by column.
.\" -l
.It Fl l
(Default) Show all wired memory information after the zone information.
.\" -L
.It Fl L
Do not show all wired memory information after the zone information.
.\" -s
.It Fl s
.Nm
sorts the zones, showing the zone wasting the most memory first.
.\" -t
.It Fl t
For each zone,
.Nm
calculates the total size of allocations from the zone over the life of the
zone.
.\" -w
.It Fl w
For each zone,
.Nm
calculates how much space is allocated but not currently in use, the space
wasted by the zone.
.El
.Pp
Any option (including default options) can be overridden by specifying the
option in upper-case; for example,
.Fl C
overrides the default option
.Fl c .
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Ex -std
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ioclasscount 1 ,
.Xr lsmp 1 ,
.Xr lskq 1 ,
