.\"-
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Brian Somers <brian@Awfulhak.org>
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD: src/share/man/man5/periodic.conf.5,v 1.65 2007/05/13 09:33:35 maxim Exp $
.\"
.Dd May 12, 2007
.Dt PERIODIC.CONF 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm periodic.conf
.Nd periodic job configuration information
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The file
.Nm
contains a description of how daily, weekly and monthly system maintenance
jobs should run.
It resides in the
.Pa /etc/defaults
directory and parts may be overridden by a file of the same name in
.Pa /etc ,
which itself may be overridden by the
.Pa /etc/periodic.conf.local
file.
.Pp
The
.Nm
file
is actually sourced as a shell script from each of the periodic scripts
and is intended to simply provide default configuration variables.
.Pp
The following variables are used by
.Xr periodic 8
itself:
.Bl -tag -offset 4n -width 2n
.It Va local_periodic
.Pq Vt str
List of directories to search for periodic scripts.
This list is always prefixed with
.Pa /etc/periodic ,
and is only used when an argument to
.Xr periodic 8
is not an absolute directory name.
.It Ao Ar dir Ac Ns Va _output
.Pq Vt path No or Vt list
What to do with the output of the scripts executed from
the directory
.Ar dir .
If this variable is set to an absolute path name, output is logged to
that file, otherwise it is taken as one or more space separated email
addresses and mailed to those users.
If this variable is not set or is empty, output is sent to standard output.
.Pp
For an unattended machine, suitable values for
.Va daily_output ,
.Va weekly_output ,
and
.Va monthly_output
might be
.Dq Li /var/log/daily.log ,
.Dq Li /var/log/weekly.log ,
and
.Dq Li /var/log/monthly.log
respectively, as
.Xr newsyslog 8
will rotate these files (if they exists) at the appropriate times.
.It Ao Ar dir Ac Ns Va _show_success
.It Ao Ar dir Ac Ns Va _show_info
.It Ao Ar dir Ac Ns Va _show_badconfig
.Pq Vt bool
These variables control whether
.Xr periodic 8
will mask the output of the executed scripts based on their return code
(where
.Ar dir
is the base directory name in which each script resides).
If the return code of a script is
.Sq 0
and
.Ao Ar dir Ac Ns Va _show_success
is set to
.Dq Li NO ,
.Xr periodic 8
will mask the script's output.
If the return code of a script is
.Sq 1
and
.Ao Ar dir Ac Ns Va _show_info
is set to
.Dq Li NO ,
.Xr periodic 8
will mask the script's output.
If the return code of a script is
.Sq 2
and
.Ao Ar dir Ac Ns Va _show_badconfig
is set to
.Dq Li NO ,
.Xr periodic 8
will mask the script's output.
If these variables are set to neither
.Dq Li YES
nor
.Dq Li NO ,
they default to
.Dq Li YES ,
.Dq Li YES
and
.Dq Li NO
respectively.
.Pp
Refer to the
.Xr periodic 8
manual page for how script return codes are interpreted.
.El
.Pp
The following variables are used by the standard scripts that reside in
.Pa /etc/periodic/daily :
.Bl -tag -offset 4n -width 2n
.It Va daily_clean_tmps_enable
.Pq Vt bool
Set to
.Dq Li YES
if you want to clear temporary directories daily.
.It Va daily_clean_tmps_dirs
.Pq Vt str
Set to the list of directories to clear if
.Va daily_clean_tmps_enable
is set to
.Dq Li YES .
.It Va daily_clean_tmps_days
.Pq Vt num
When
.Va daily_clean_tmps_enable
is set, this must also be set to the number of days old that a file's access
and modification times must be before it is deleted.
.It Va daily_clean_tmps_ignore
.Pq Vt str
Set to the list of files that should not be deleted when
.Va daily_clean_tmps_enable
is set to
.Dq Li YES .
Wild card characters are permitted.
.It Va daily_clean_tmps_verbose
.Pq Vt bool
Set to
.Dq Li YES
if you want the removed files to be reported in your daily output.
.It Va daily_clean_msgs_enable
.Pq Vt bool
Set to
.Dq Li YES
if you wish old system messages to be purged.
.It Va daily_clean_msgs_days
.Pq Vt num
Set to the number of days that files must not have been modified before
they are deleted.
If this variable is left blank, the
.Xr msgs 1
default is used.
.It Va daily_clean_rwho_enable
.Pq Vt bool
Set to
.Dq Li YES
if you wish old files in
.Pa /var/who
to be purged.
.It Va daily_clean_rwho_days
.Pq Vt num
Set to the number of days that files must not have been modified before
they are deleted.
.It Va daily_clean_rwho_verbose
.Pq Vt bool
Set to
.Dq Li YES
if you want the removed files to be reported in your daily output.
.It Va daily_accounting_enable
.Pq Vt bool
Set to
.Dq Li YES
if you want to rotate your daily accounting files.
No rotations are necessary unless
.Va accounting_enable
is enabled in
.Xr rc.conf 5 .
.It Va daily_accounting_compress
.Pq Vt bool
Set to
.Dq Li YES
if you want your daily accounting files to be compressed using
.Xr gzip 1 .
.It Va daily_accounting_save
.Pq Vt num
When
.Va daily_accounting_enable
is set, this may also be set to the number of daily accounting files that are
to be saved.
The default is
.Dq Li 3 .
.It Va daily_accounting_flags
.Pq Vt str
Set to the arguments to pass to the
.Xr sa 8
utility (in addition to
.Fl s )
when
.Va daily_accounting_enable
is set to
.Dq Li YES .
The default is
.Fl q .
.It Va daily_status_disks_enable
.Pq Vt bool
Set to
.Dq Li YES
if you want to run
.Xr df 1
(with the arguments supplied in
.Va daily_status_disks_df_flags ) .
.It Va daily_status_disks_df_flags
.Pq Vt str
Set to the arguments for the
.Xr df 1
utility when
.Va daily_status_disks_enable
is set to
.Dq Li YES .
.It Va daily_status_network_enable
.Pq Vt bool
Set to
.Dq Li YES
if you want to run
.Nm netstat Fl i .
.It Va daily_status_network_usedns
.Pq Vt bool
Set to
.Dq Li YES
if you want to run
.Xr netstat 1
without the
.Fl n
option (to do DNS lookups).
.It Va daily_status_rwho_enable
.Pq Vt bool
Set to
.Dq Li YES
if you want to run
.Xr uptime 1
(or
.Xr ruptime 1
if
.Va rwhod_enable
is set to
.Dq Li YES
in
.Pa /etc/rc.conf ) .
.It Va daily_status_mailq_enable
.Pq Vt bool
Set to
.Dq Li YES
if you want to run
.Xr mailq 1 .
.It Va daily_status_mailq_shorten
.Pq Vt bool
Set to
.Dq Li YES
if you want to shorten the
.Xr mailq 1
output when
.Va daily_status_mailq_enable
is set to
.Dq Li YES .
.It Va daily_status_include_submit_mailq
.Pq Vt bool
Set to
.Dq Li YES
if you also want to run
.Xr mailq 1
on the submit mail queue when
.Va daily_status_mailq_enable
is set to
.Dq Li YES .
This may not work with MTAs other than
.Xr sendmail 8 .
.It Va daily_local
.Pq Vt str
Set to a list of extra scripts that should be run after all other
daily scripts.
All scripts must be absolute path names.
.El
.Pp
The following variables are used by the standard scripts that reside in
.Pa /etc/periodic/weekly :
.Bl -tag -offset 4n -width 2n
.It Va weekly_whatis_enable
.Pq Vt bool
Set to
.Dq Li YES
if you want to run
.Pa /usr/libexec/makewhatis.local .
This script regenerates the database used by the
.Xr apropos 1
command.
.It Va weekly_local
.Pq Vt str
Set to a list of extra scripts that should be run after all other
weekly scripts.
All scripts must be absolute path names.
.El
.Pp
The following variables are used by the standard scripts that reside in
.Pa /etc/periodic/monthly :
.Bl -tag -offset 4n -width 2n
.It Va monthly_accounting_enable
.Pq Vt bool
Set to
.Dq Li YES
if you want to do login accounting using the
.Xr ac 8
command.
.It Va monthly_local
.Pq Vt str
Set to a list of extra scripts that should be run after all other
monthly scripts.
All scripts must be absolute path names.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width ".Pa /etc/defaults/periodic.conf"
.It Pa /etc/defaults/periodic.conf
The default configuration file.
This file contains all default variables and values.
.It Pa /etc/periodic.conf
The usual system specific variable override file.
.It Pa /etc/periodic.conf.local
An additional override file, useful when
.Pa /etc/periodic.conf
is shared or distributed.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr apropos 1 ,
.Xr calendar 1 ,
.Xr df 1 ,
.Xr diff 1 ,
.Xr gzip 1 ,
.Xr man 1 ,
.Xr msgs 1 ,
.Xr netstat 1 ,
.Xr nice 1 ,
.Xr ac 8 ,
.Xr newsyslog 8 ,
.Xr periodic 8 ,
.Xr sendmail 8
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
file appeared in
.Fx 4.1 .
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Brian Somers Aq brian@Awfulhak.org
