.\" Copyright (c) 2008 Apple Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" @APPLE_OSREFERENCE_LICENSE_HEADER_START@
.\"
.\" This file contains Original Code and/or Modifications of Original Code
.\" as defined in and that are subject to the Apple Public Source License
.\" Version 2.0 (the 'License'). You may not use this file except in
.\" compliance with the License. The rights granted to you under the License
.\" may not be used to create, or enable the creation or redistribution of,
.\" unlawful or unlicensed copies of an Apple operating system, or to
.\" circumvent, violate, or enable the circumvention or violation of, any
.\" terms of an Apple operating system software license agreement.
.\"
.\" Please obtain a copy of the License at
.\" http://www.opensource.apple.com/apsl/ and read it before using this file.
.\"
.\" The Original Code and all software distributed under the License are
.\" distributed on an 'AS IS' basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AND APPLE HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL SUCH WARRANTIES,
.\" INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, QUIET ENJOYMENT OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.
.\" Please see the License for the specific language governing rights and
.\" limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" @APPLE_OSREFERENCE_LICENSE_HEADER_END@
.\"
.Dd August 14, 2008 
.Dt AMT 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm amt
.Nd Abstract Machine Test Utility
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl m
.Op Fl p
.Op Fl q
.Op Fl s
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility is used to verify that the low level functions necessary to enforce
requirements of the Controlled Access Protection Profile (CAPP) are working
correctly. 
.Pp
The
.Nm 
utility must be executed with sufficient privileges and 
performs the following tests:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Memory Read and Write
This test allocates between 5% to 10% of physical memory and writes data to it, then
reads the memory back to ensure the values written remain unchanged.
.It Memory Separation and Protection
This test ensures that user space programs cannot read and write to areas of memory 
that is protected or is not shared.
.It Privileged Instructions
This test ensures that the enforcement of the property that privileged instructions 
should only be in supervisor mode is still in effect. 
The set of privileged instructions tested to confirm this is 
architecture dependent.
.El
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl m
Skip the memory test.
.It Fl p
Skip the privileged instructions test.
.It Fl q
Suppress the screen output.
.It Fl s
Skip the memory separation and protection test.
.El
.Sh EXIT CODES
.Bl -tag -width indent 
.It <0 
An error occured in executing the tests.
.It =0
All the tests passed.
.It >0 
The number of tests that failed or were skipped.
.El
.Sh NOTES
The overall result (pass or fail) is logged in the audit trail and system log.
The
.Xr auditd 8
daemon must already be running for the results to be stored in the 
audit trail file.
.Pp
One of the above test may be skipped without getting a negative result. 
A test is skipped either with one of the above command-line options or 
automatically if there is not a test compatiable with the Target Of 
Evaluation (TOE). The audit administrator may want to perform the memory
test only on startup since it can have large negative impact on the system
performance.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr audit 2
.Xr auditd 8
.Xr syslog 3
.Xr syslogd 8
