.\"Copyright (c) 2004-2009 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"@APPLE_LICENSE_HEADER_START@
.\"
.\"This file contains Original Code and/or Modifications of Original Code
.\"as defined in and that are subject to the Apple Public Source License
.\"Version 2.0 (the 'License'). You may not use this file except in
.\"compliance with the License. Please obtain a copy of the License at
.\"http://www.opensource.apple.com/apsl/ and read it before using this
.\"file.
.\"
.\"The Original Code and all software distributed under the License are
.\"distributed on an 'AS IS' basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
.\"EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AND APPLE HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL SUCH WARRANTIES,
.\"INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\"FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, QUIET ENJOYMENT OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.
.\"Please see the License for the specific language governing rights and
.\"limitations under the License.
.\"
.\"@APPLE_LICENSE_HEADER_END@
.\"
.Dd December 7, 2007
.Dt ASLMANAGER 8
.Os "Mac OS X"
.Sh NAME
.Nm aslmanager
.Nd Apple System Log data life-cycle manager
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl s Ar store_dir
.Op Fl a Op Ar archive_dir
.Op Fl ttl Ar days
.Op Fl store_ttl Ar days
.Op Fl module_ttl Ar days
.Op Fl size Ar max_size
.Op Fl asldb
.Op Fl module Op Ar name
.Op Fl checkpoint
.Op Fl d Op level
.Op Fl dd Op level
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm aslmanager 
manages rotated files and ASL data written by the
.Nm syslogd
server.
It is started automatically at various times by
.Nm syslogd .
It may also be invoked from the command line by the superuser (root).
It manages the life-cycle of data in the ASL database, rotated log files,
and ASL directory data stores.
Configuration information for
.Nm aslmanager
comes from the /etc/asl.conf configuration file,
any ASL output module configuration files in the /etc/asl directory,
and from command-line options that may be specified to override some settings
found in the configuration files.
In normal operation, it first checks the ASL database in /var/log/asl,
then it checks the files and directories specified by /etc/asl.conf and each ASL output module. 
.Pp
If the
.Fl asldb
flag is specified, then only the ASL database will be processed.
.Pp
If the
.Fl module
flag is specified, then the ASL database will not be processed.
All ASL output modules, or a single module if
.Ar name
is specified, will be processed.
.Pp
If
.Fl checkpoint
is specified, then
.Nm aslmanager
will signal
.Nm syslogd
to checkpoint files for all modules, or for a single named module, before processing.
.Pp
The
.Fl d
flag causes
.Nm
to print debug messages tracing it's actions as they are performed.
An integer value (1, 2, or 3) may follow the 
.Fl d
flag.
Higher values cause more fine-grained messages to be printed.
The default value is 1.
The 
.Fl dd
flag directs
.Nm 
to do a
.Dq dry run .
Debug messages are printed as with
.Fl d ,
but no actions are actually performed.
An optional debug level may follow the
.Fl dd
flag.
.Ss ASL DATABASE MANAGEMENT
.Nm aslmanager
scans the ASL database in /var/log/asl, or some other path specified by the setting of the
.Dq store_path
parameter in asl.conf, or by the path supplied following the
.Fl s
flag.
Data files that are older than the time-to-live for the database are either archived or removed.
Files that contain messages with explicit expire times are removed or archived monthly after all their contents expire.
The default 7 day time-to-live value may be overridden by the setting of the
.Dq store_ttl
parameter in asl.conf or by supplying a value following the
.Fl store_ttl
flag or the
.Fl ttl 
flag (which overrides the time-to-live for both the ASL database and for all ASL modules).
A time-to-live value of zero allows files to remain in the store with no time limit.
.Pp
A maximum size for the entire database is provided by the setting of the
.Dq max_store_size
parameter in asl.conf, or as a value following the
.Fl size
flag.
This will cause
.Nm
to archive (if enabled) and remove files to keep the database size below the specified limit.
The default value is 150000000 bytes.
A value of zero means the size is unlimited.
An unlimited size specification should be used with great caution,
since a runaway process could quickly fill all available disk space.
Files are removed in order starting from oldest to newest.
Files with the same date are removed in standard lexicographic sort order by file name.
.Pp
Files are either removed entirely or copied to an archive directory.
If the
.Fl a
flag is specified with no argument, files are copied to the /var/log/asl.archive directory.
An alternate directory path may be specified following the
.Fl a
flag.
The archive parameter setting in asl.conf enables or disables archiving.
The archive parameter requires a value of "1" to enable archiving, or a value of "0" to disable it.
An option archive directory path may follow the "0" or "1".
.Pp
.Ss ASL OUTPUT MODULE MANAGEMENT
For each ASL output module, or a single module specified as an argument following
.Fl module ,
.Nm aslmanager
first locates all checkpoint files produced by
.Nm syslogd
for that module.
.Nm aslmanager
checks all ASL directory data stores and all rotated log files - those with a
.Dq rotate
option in the module's configuration rules.
Checkpoint files are renamed if necessary to conform to the naming style specified for the file by a
.Dq style
option in the module's configuration file.
.Nm aslmanager 
will compress the file if directed by a
.Dq compress
option, and it will move the file to a destination directory if a
.Dq dest
option is specified for the file.
Following this,
.Nm
will delete expired files.
The time-to-live for files is 7 days by default, but may be specified using the
.Dq ttl
option for the file in the module's configuration rules.
If
.Fl module_ttl
or
.Fl ttl
are specified command line, then value specified as an argument is used as a time-to-live instead.
.Fl module_ttl
specifies time-to-live for module processing.
.Fl ttl
specifies time-to-live for both the ASL database and for modules.
.Pp
Finally, if the
.Dq all_max
option is specified for the output file,
.Nm
checks the total size of all the rotated versions,
and will delete them, (oldest first) to limit the total size as specified by
.Dq all_max .
When processing ASL directory data stores,
.Nm
will similarly delete data files after the expiry of their time-to-live,
and will delete data files (oldest first) to limit the total size as specified by
.Dq all_max .
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr syslogd 8 ,
.Xr syslog 1 ,
.Xr asl 3 ,
.Xr asl.conf 5 ,
.Xr syslog 3 .
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
utility appeared in Mac OS X 10.6.
Support for log file and ASL directory life-cycle management was added in OS X 10.9.
