.Dd 29 Apr 2003
.Os "Mac OS X"
.Dt hdik 8
.Pp
.Sh NAME
.Nm hdik
.Nd lightweight tool to attach and mount disk images in-kernel
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm hdik
.Ar imagefile
.Op options
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a lightweight tool that can be used to attach disk images in-kernel (i.e. without a
user-land process to provide the backing store).  Only a subset of disk images can be mounted
in this manner including read/write disk images, UDIF disk images that use zlib compression, 
shadowed disk images, and sparse disk images.
.Pp
.Nm 
is intended for use in situations where linking against the DiskImages framework is problematic
or an extremely lightweight mechanism for attaching a disk image is needed.
.Pp
You can specify that the image should not be processed by Disk Arbitration
by specifying the
.Fl nomount 
option.  You can also specify that the image be mounted with a shadow file by using the 
.Fl shadow
option.
.Pp
The following argument must be specified:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "123456789A" -compact
.It Ar imagefile
the disk image to be mounted.
.El
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width "123456789A" -compact
.It Fl shadow Op Ar shadowfile 
Use a shadow file in conjunction with the data in the image.  This option
prevents modification of the original image and allows read-only images
to be used as read/write images.  When blocks are being read from the
image, blocks present in the shadow file override blocks in the base image.
When blocks are being written, the writes will be redirected to the shadow
file.  If not specified, 
.Fl shadow 
defaults to <imagename>.shadow.  If the
shadow file does not exist, it is created.
.It Fl nomount
Suppress automatic mounting of the image or partitions on it.  This will
result in /dev entries being created, but will not mount any volumes.
.It Fl drivekey Ar keyname=value
Specify a key/value pair for the IOHDIXHDDrive object created (shows up
in the IOKit registry of devices which is viewable with ioreg(8)).
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Ns Xr hdiutil 1 ,
.Ns Xr diskarbitrationd 8 ,
.Ns Xr diskutil 8 ,
.Ns Xr ioreg 8
