.Dd March 6, 2009 
.Os Darwin
.Dt KEXTSTAT 8
.Sh NAME
.Nm kextstat
.Nd display status of loaded kernel extensions (kexts)
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm kextstat
.Op Fl h
.Op Fl k
.Op Fl l
.Op Fl b Ar identifier
.Li \&.\|.\|.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility displays the status of any kexts
currently loaded in the kernel.
The following information is shown for each loaded kext:
.Bl -tag -width indentXX
.It Index
The load index of the kext (used to track linkage references).
Gaps in the list indicate kexts that have been unloaded.
.It Refs
The number of references to this kext by others.
If nonzero, the kext cannot be unloaded.
.It Address
The address in kernel space where the kext has been loaded.
.It Size
The number of bytes of kernel memory that the kext occupies.
If this is zero, the kext is a built-in part of the kernel
that has a record as a kext for resolving dependencies among kexts.
.It Wired
The number of wired bytes of kernel memory that the kext occupies.
.It Name
The CFBundleIdentifier of the kext.
.It (Version)
The CFBundleVersion of the kext.
.It <Linked Against>
The index numbers of all other kexts that this kext
has a reference to.
.El
.Sh OPTIONS
These options are available:
.Bl -tag -width indentXX
.It Fl b Ar identifier , Fl bundle-id Ar identifier
Display the status of only the kext with
the given bundle identifier.
This option trumps the
.Fl no-kernel
option;
if both are given and a kernel component is specified,
its information is shown.
.It Fl h , Fl help
Print a help message describing each option flag and exit with a success result,
regardless of any other options on the command line.
.It Fl k , Fl no-kernel
Don't show information for built-in components of the kernel.
.It Fl l , Fl list-only
Print the list of loaded kexts only and omit the header
(useful for running output through text-analysis tools).
.El
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
The
.Nm
utility exits with a status of 0 on success
and with a nonzero status if an error occurs.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr kextcache 8 ,
.Xr kextd 8 ,
.Xr kextload 8 ,
.Xr kextunload 8 ,
.Xr kextutil 8
