.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2002 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" @APPLE_LICENSE_HEADER_START@
.\" 
.\" The contents of this file constitute Original Code as defined in and
.\" are subject to the Apple Public Source License Version 1.1 (the
.\" "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the
.\" License.  Please obtain a copy of the License at
.\" http://www.apple.com/publicsource and read it before using this file.
.\" 
.\" This Original Code and all software distributed under the License are
.\" distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AND APPLE HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL SUCH WARRANTIES,
.\" INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.  Please see the
.\" License for the specific language governing rights and limitations
.\" under the License.
.\"
.\" @APPLE_LICENSE_HEADER_END@
.\"
.\" ****************************************
.\" *
.\" *  mount_afp [-o options] [-i] host[:port][/path] node
.\" *
.\" *  Created by randall on Wed May 8 2002.
.\" *
.\" ****************************************
.\"
.\" ****************************************
.\" *  Required macros
.\" ****************************************
.Dd May 8, 2002
.Dt MOUNT_AFP 8
.Os Mac\ OS\ X
.\"
.\" ****************************************
.\" *  NAME section
.\" ****************************************
.Sh NAME
.Nm mount_afp
.Nd mount an afp (AppleShare) filesystem
.\"
.\" ****************************************
.\" *  SYNOPSIS section
.\" ****************************************
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl i
.Op Fl s
.Op Fl k
.Op Fl o Ar options
.Ar afp_url
.Ar node
.\"
.\" ****************************************
.\" *  DESCRIPTION section
.\" ****************************************
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
command mounts the AFP volume denoted by the afp_url
.Ar afp://[user[;AUTH=uamname][:password]@]host[:port]/volumename
at the mount point indicated by
.Ar node.
.Pp
This command is normally executed by mount(8) when the -t afp option is 
used. If the -i option is not used,
all the required information to establish a login to the remote server must
be available in the afp URL, including username & password if needed.	 
.Pp
The arguments and options are:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl i
Interactive mode, you are prompted for the password if you did not supply one
in the url.
.It Fl s
Soft mount (default).
Network errors, e.g. timeouts, will be retried for a much shorter amount of time.
If the network errors persist, then the mount will be force unmounted.
.It Fl k
Hard mount.
Network errors, e.g. timeouts, will be retried for an extended amount of time.
If the network errors persist, then the mount will be force unmounted.
.It Fl o
Options passed to
.Xr mount 2
are specified with the
.Fl o
option followed by a comma separated string of options. See the
.Xr mount 8
man page for possible options and their meanings. Additional options supported by the AFP Client are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It nobrowse
Indicate to the Carbon subsystem that this volume is not to be displayed to the user.
.It automounted
Set flags on the mountpoint to indicate that the volume has been mounted by the automounter.
.El
.It Ar afp_url
There are two forms of afp URL, one for TCP/IP and one for AppleTalk:
.Pp
afp://[user[;AUTH=uamname][:password]@]host[:port]/volume
.Pp
afp:/at/[user[;AUTH=uamname][:password]@]servername[:zonename]/volume
.Pp
Denotes the afp server and sharepoint to mount. It may also contain the username & password
required to log into the server. uamname is the protocol name of the authentication method.
If port is not specified, then port 548 is used. 
.It Ar node
Path to mount point, which must be a directory that the user has write permissions for.
.El
.\"
.\" ****************************************
.\" *  EXAMPLES section
.\" ****************************************
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following example illustrates how to mount the afp volume
server.company.com/volumename/ at the mount point /Volumes/mntpnt:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
mkdir /Volumes/mntpnt
mount_afp afp://username:userpass@server.company.com/volumename/ /Volumes/mntpnt

.Ed
This example shows the proper url to use to mount the volume guestVolume from
the afp server myserver as guest (if no uam and no username, then use guest uam):
.Bd -literal -offset indent
mkdir /Volumes/guest
mount_afp "afp://myserver/guestVolume" /Volumes/guest

.Ed
This example shows the proper url to use to mount the volume myVolume from
the afp server myserver using Kerberos authentication:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
mkdir /Volumes/myVolume
mount_afp "afp://;AUTH=Client%20Krb%20v2@myserver/myVolume" /Volumes/myVolume

.Ed
.\"
.\" ****************************************
.\" *  SEE ALSO section
.\" ****************************************
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mount 2 ,
.Xr unmount 2 ,
.Xr mount 8
.\"
.\" ****************************************
.\" *  HISTORY section
.\" ****************************************
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
command first appeared Mac OS X version 10.0. Kerberos authentication was added in Mac OS X version 10.2
.\"
.\" ****************************************
.\" * RETURN VALUES section
.\" * (errors that mount_afp could return)
.\" ****************************************
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It 0
.Nm
successfully mounted the volume directory. 
.It Bq Er ENODEV (19)
The server volume could not be mounted by
.Nm
because the server was not found or because the sharepoint does not exist, or because node
does not have proper access.
.It Bq Er EACCES (13)
The volume could not be mounted by
.Nm
because the user did not provide proper authentication credentials.
.It Bq Er ENOTDIR (20)
The volume could not be mounted by
.Nm
because the mountpoint was not a directory.
.El
.\"
