.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999-2007 Apple Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" @APPLE_LICENSE_HEADER_START@
.\" 
.\" This file contains Original Code and/or Modifications of Original Code
.\" as defined in and that are subject to the Apple Public Source License
.\" Version 2.0 (the 'License'). You may not use this file except in
.\" compliance with the License. Please obtain a copy of the License at
.\" http://www.opensource.apple.com/apsl/ and read it before using this
.\" file.
.\" 
.\" The Original Code and all software distributed under the License are
.\" distributed on an 'AS IS' basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AND APPLE HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL SUCH WARRANTIES,
.\" INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, QUIET ENJOYMENT OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.
.\" Please see the License for the specific language governing rights and
.\" limitations under the License.
.\" 
.\" @APPLE_LICENSE_HEADER_END@
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)mountd.8	8.4 (Berkeley) 4/28/95
.\"
.Dd November 10, 2006
.Dt MOUNTD 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm mountd
.Nd service remote
.Tn NFS
mount requests
.Sh SYNOPSIS
Obsolete.  See
.Xr nfsd 8 .
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
daemon was formerly the server for
.Tn NFS
mount requests from NFS clients.
This functionality has been moved into the NFS server daemon
.Xr nfsd 8 .
.Pp
Please refer to
.Xr nfsd 8
for NFS server documenation.
.Pp
The following is a list of former
.Nm
options that are now available as
.Xr nfsd 8
options:
.Bl -column -offset indent ".Sy mountd option" ".Sy new nfsd option" ".Sy Description"
.It Sy mountd option Ta Sy nfsd option Ta Sy Description
.It Fl n Ta Fl N Ta allow non-root mounts
.It Fl r Ta Fl R Ta allow regular file mounts
.It Pa exportsfile Ta Fl F Pa exportsfile Ta alternate exports file
.El
.Pp
However, such configuration options are normally specified via
.Xr nfs.conf 5 .
.Pp
When the NFS server is started, it loads the export host addresses and
options into the kernel using the
.Xr nfssvc 2
system call.  After changing the list of exports (either directly or
indirectly via a change in netgroup membership), the administrator
should send a hangup signal to the nfsd daemon to get it to reload
the export information:
.Pp
.Dl "kill \-s HUP `cat /var/run/nfsd.pid`
.Pp
For backwards compatibility, the following should also work:
.Pp
.Dl "kill \-s HUP `cat /var/run/mountd.pid`
.Pp
Any errors encountered while processing the export entries will
be logged via
.Xr syslog 3 .
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /var/run/mountd.pid -compact
.It Pa /etc/exports
the list of exported filesystems
.It Pa /var/run/mountd.pid
the pid of the currently running mountd
.It Pa /var/run/mountdtab
the current list of outstanding mounts served
.It Pa /var/run/mountdexptab
information about exported file systems
and directories (UUIDs, handles, ...)
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr nfsd 8 ,
.Xr exports 5 ,
.Xr nfs.conf 5 ,
.Xr nfsstat 1 ,
.Xr portmap 8 ,
.Xr showmount 8
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm mountd
utility first appeared in 4.4BSD.
It's functionality was merged into
.Xr nfsd 8
in Darwin 9.
