.\"Copyright (c) 2013 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"@APPLE_LICENSE_HEADER_START@
.\"
.\"This file contains Original Code and/or Modifications of Original Code
.\"as defined in and that are subject to the Apple Public Source License
.\"Version 2.0 (the 'License'). You may not use this file except in
.\"compliance with the License. Please obtain a copy of the License at
.\"http://www.opensource.apple.com/apsl/ and read it before using this
.\"file.
.\"
.\"The Original Code and all software distributed under the License are
.\"distributed on an 'AS IS' basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
.\"EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AND APPLE HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL SUCH WARRANTIES,
.\"INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\"FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, QUIET ENJOYMENT OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.
.\"Please see the License for the specific language governing rights and
.\"limitations under the License.
.\"
.\"@APPLE_LICENSE_HEADER_END@
.\"
.Dd March 9, 2013
.Dt PACEMAKER 8
.Os "OS X"
.Sh NAME
.Nm pacemaker
.Nd clock drift adjustment daemon
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl d Ar drift
.Op Fl b
.Op Fl e Ar error
.Op Fl a Ar interval
.Op Fl i
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl n
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm pacemaker
adjusts the system clock periodically to compensate for clock drift.
The clock drift is normally computed by
.Xr ntpd 8 ,
which writes a clock drift value in /var/db/ntp.drift.
By default,
.Nm pacemaker
will call
.Xr adjtime 2
once per second to slew the system clock.
The daemon is started by
.Xr launchd 8 
only when the drift file is present or has just been created in the file system.
.Nm pacemaker
detects changes in the file and re-calculates clock adjustment values appropriately.
The daemon will exit if the drift file is deleted and is not re-created within one minute.
.Pp
As a fail-safe mechanism,
.Nm pacemaker
will reset the system clock using
.Xr settimeofday 2
if the system clock requires adjustment
exceeding the maximum value that can be accomodated by adjtime to slew the clock.
In practice, this extreme case should never occur.
.Pp
The
.Fl d
option allows the specification of either a floating-point drift value,
or the path name of an alternate drift file.
If a floating point drift value is specified,
.Nm pacemaker
will use the given value and will not read a drift file.
.Pp
To reduce power consumption, especially when the system is using
internal battery power, it may be desirable to reduce the frequency
of calls to adjust the system's clock drift.
The
.Fl e
and
.Fl a
options, together with the
.Fl b
flag allow several ways to control the clock adjustment frequency.
.Pp
The floating point value following
.Fl e
specifies a maximum error tolerance in seconds for the system clock.
For example, a value of 0.001 specifies that the clock drift adjustment 
should only be done frequently enough to keep the system clock error 
within one millisecond, based on the current clock drift rate.
.Pp
Alternatively, the clock adjustment frequency can be specified exactly
as a value in seconds following
.Fl a .
.Pp
When both
.Fl e Ar error
and
.Fl a Ar interval
are provided,
.Nm pacemaker
will choose to adjust the system clock either every
.Ar interval
seconds, or less frequently if the clock error will remain within
.Ar error
seconds.
.Pp
The settings for
.Fl e
and/or
.Fl a
may be specified for operation of the system while using an external power source,
and specified independently for operation using internal batteries.
By default, the values for
.Fl e
and/or
.Fl a
are used for both power configurations.
If the
.Fl b
flag precedes
.Fl e
and/or
.Fl a ,
then the following settings apply only when the system is using internal battery power.
.Pp
For example, starting
.Nm pacemaker
with the following parameters will cause it to adjust the clock every
2 seconds when the system is using external power.
When running on battery power, it will adjust the clock no more than
once every 10 seconds, or less frequently if the clock error remains less than
five milliseconds.
.Pp
.Dl pacemaker -a 2 -b -a 10 -e 0.005
.Pp
When invoked on the command-line with
.Fl i ,
.Nm pacemaker
prints a summary of internal parameters and then exits.
The 
.Fl v
flag causes
.Nm pacemaker
to print copies of its log messages to standard error.
Note that this requires running the program from the command line rather than from
.Nm launchd .
.Fl n
causes
.Nm pacemaker
to run without actually attempting to adjust the system clock.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /var/db/ntp.drift -compact
.It Pa /var/db/ntp.drift
default clock drift file
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr launchd 8 ,
.Xr ntpd 8 ,
.Xr adjtime 2 ,
.Xr settimeofday 2 .
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm pacemaker
daemon was introduced in OS X 10.9.
