.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii pcsctool.8
.\"
.TH PCSCTEST 8 "March 2003" MacOSX "User Manual"
.SH NAME
pcsctest
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pcsctest
.SH DESCRPTION
pcsctest runs a test on pcscd, lists the readers currently connected, and
displays card information if a card is inserted.
.SH OPTIONS 
None
.SH USAGE
pcsctest lists the currently connected readers and asks the user
to choose one.  After choosing the reader, pcsctest will ask the
user to insert a card into the card reader.  If this happens pcsctest
will display the cards's ATR and other information.

Example:

The following will occur if no reader is inserted and recognized:

MUSCLE PC/SC Lite Test Program

  Testing SCardEstablishContext    : Command successful.
  Testing SCardGetStatusChange 

Once a reader is inserted and recognized the following will occur:
 
  MUSCLE PC/SC Lite Test Program

  Testing SCardEstablishContext    : Command successful.
  Testing SCardGetStatusChange
  Please insert a working reader   : Command successful.
  Testing SCardListReaders         : Command successful.
  Reader 01: SCM SCR-331 CCID 0 0
  Enter the reader number          : 1

  Waiting for card insertion
                                   : Command successful.
  Testing SCardConnect             : Command successful.
  Testing SCardStatus              : Command successful.
  Current Reader Name              : CCID USB Reader 0 0
  Current Reader State             : 34
  Current Reader Protocol          : 0
  Current Reader ATR Size          : 9
  Current Reader ATR Value         : 3B E2 00 00 04 03 00
  Testing SCardDisconnect          : Command successful.
  Testing SCardReleaseContext      : Command successful.

  PC/SC Test Completed Successfully !


.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pcscd (8)
.SH BUGS
