.\" $Id: racoon.8,v 1.3.10.1 2005/04/18 11:10:55 manubsd Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 1995, 1996, 1997, and 1998 WIDE Project.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the project nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE PROJECT AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE PROJECT OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd November 20, 2000
.Dt RACOON 8
.Os
.\"
.Sh NAME
.Nm racoon
.Nd IKE (ISAKMP/Oakley) key management daemon
.\"
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm racoon
.Bk -words
.Op Fl 46BdFLv
.Ek
.Bk -words
.Op Fl f Ar configfile
.Ek
.Bk -words
.Op Fl l Ar logfile
.Ek
.\"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is used to setup and maintain an IPSec tunnel or transport channel, 
between two devices, over which network traffic is conveyed securely. 
This security is made possible by cryptographic keys and operations 
on both devices.
.\"
.Nm
relies on a standardized network protocol (IKE) to automatically 
negotiate and manage the cryptographic keys (e.g. security 
associations) that are necessary for the 
IPSec tunnel or transport channel to function.
.\"
.Nm
speaks the IKE
.Pq ISAKMP/Oakley
key management protocol,
to establish security associations with other hosts.
The SPD
.Pq Security Policy Database
in the kernel usually triggers
.Nm .
.Nm
usually sends all informational messages, warnings and error messages to
.Xr syslogd 8
with the facility
.Dv LOG_DAEMON
and the priority
.Dv LOG_INFO .
Debugging messages are sent with the priority
.Dv LOG_DEBUG .
You should configure
.Xr syslog.conf 5
appropriately to see these messages.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl 4
.It Fl 6
Specify the default address family for the sockets.
.It Fl B
Install SA(s) from the file which is specified in
.Xr racoon.conf 5 .
.It Fl d
Increase the debug level.
Multiple
.Fl d
arguments will increase the debug level even more.
.It Fl F
Run
.Nm
in the foreground.
.It Fl f Ar configfile
Use
.Ar configfile
as the configuration file instead of the default.
.It Fl L
Include
.Ar file_name:line_number:function_name
in all messages.
.It Fl l Ar logfile
Use
.Ar logfile
as the logging file instead of
.Xr syslogd 8 .
.It Fl v
This flag causes the packet dump be more verbose, with higher
debugging level.
.El
.Pp
.Nm
assumes the presence of the kernel random number device
.Xr rnd 4
at
.Pa /dev/urandom .
.\"
.Sh RETURN VALUES
The command exits with 0 on success, and non-zero on errors.
.\"
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /private/etc/racoon/remote/anonymous -compact
.It Pa /private/etc/racoon/racoon.conf 
default configuration file.
.It Pa /private/etc/racoon/psk.txt 
default pre-shared key file.
.El
.\"
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ipsec 4 ,
.Xr racoon.conf 5 ,
.Xr syslog.conf 5 ,
.Xr setkey 8 ,
.Xr syslogd 8
.\"
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
command first appeared in the
.Dq YIPS
Yokogawa IPsec implementation.
.\"
.Sh SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
The use of IKE phase 1 aggressive mode is not recommended,
as described in
.Pa http://www.kb.cert.org/vuls/id/886601 .
