.TH TLSPROXY 8 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
tlsproxy
\-
Postfix TLS proxy
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
\fBtlsproxy\fR [generic Postfix daemon options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
The \fBtlsproxy\fR(8) server implements a server-side TLS
proxy. It is used by \fBpostscreen\fR(8) to talk SMTP-over-TLS
with remote SMTP clients whose whitelist status has expired,
but it should also work for non-SMTP protocols.

Although one \fBtlsproxy\fR(8) process can serve multiple
sessions at the same time, it is a good idea to allow the
number of processes to increase with load, so that the
service remains responsive.
.SH "PROTOCOL EXAMPLE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
The example below concerns \fBpostscreen\fR(8). However,
the \fBtlsproxy\fR(8) server is agnostic of the application
protocol, and the example is easily adapted to other
applications.

The \fBpostscreen\fR(8) server sends the remote SMTP client
endpoint string, the requested role (server), and the
requested timeout to \fBtlsproxy\fR(8).  \fBpostscreen\fR(8)
then receives a "TLS available" indication from \fBtlsproxy\fR(8).
If the TLS service is available, \fBpostscreen\fR(8) sends
the remote SMTP client file descriptor to \fBtlsproxy\fR(8),
and sends the plaintext 220 greeting to the remote SMTP
client.  This triggers TLS negotiations between the remote
SMTP client and \fBtlsproxy\fR(8).  Upon completion of the
TLS-level handshake, \fBtlsproxy\fR(8) translates between
plaintext from/to \fBpostscreen\fR(8) and ciphertext to/from
the remote SMTP client.
.SH "SECURITY"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
The \fBtlsproxy\fR(8) server is moderately security-sensitive.
It talks to untrusted clients on the network. The process
can be run chrooted at fixed low privilege.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Problems and transactions are logged to \fBsyslogd\fR(8).
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Changes to \fBmain.cf\fR are not picked up automatically,
as \fBtlsproxy\fR(8) processes may run for a long time
depending on mail server load.  Use the command "\fBpostfix
reload\fR" to speed up a change.

The text below provides only a parameter summary. See
\fBpostconf\fR(5) for more details including examples.
.SH "STARTTLS SUPPORT CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBtlsproxy_tls_CAfile ($smtpd_tls_CAfile)\fR"
A file containing (PEM format) CA certificates of root CAs
trusted to sign either remote SMTP client certificates or intermediate
CA certificates.
.IP "\fBtlsproxy_tls_CApath ($smtpd_tls_CApath)\fR"
A directory containing (PEM format) CA certificates of root CAs
trusted to sign either remote SMTP client certificates or intermediate
CA certificates.
.IP "\fBtlsproxy_tls_always_issue_session_ids ($smtpd_tls_always_issue_session_ids)\fR"
Force the Postfix \fBtlsproxy\fR(8) server to issue a TLS session id,
even when TLS session caching is turned off.
.IP "\fBtlsproxy_tls_ask_ccert ($smtpd_tls_ask_ccert)\fR"
Ask a remote SMTP client for a client certificate.
.IP "\fBtlsproxy_tls_ccert_verifydepth ($smtpd_tls_ccert_verifydepth)\fR"
The verification depth for remote SMTP client certificates.
.IP "\fBtlsproxy_tls_cert_file ($smtpd_tls_cert_file)\fR"
File with the Postfix \fBtlsproxy\fR(8) server RSA certificate in PEM
format.
.IP "\fBtlsproxy_tls_ciphers ($smtpd_tls_ciphers)\fR"
The minimum TLS cipher grade that the Postfix \fBtlsproxy\fR(8) server
will use with opportunistic TLS encryption.
.IP "\fBtlsproxy_tls_dcert_file ($smtpd_tls_dcert_file)\fR"
File with the Postfix \fBtlsproxy\fR(8) server DSA certificate in PEM
format.
.IP "\fBtlsproxy_tls_dh1024_param_file ($smtpd_tls_dh1024_param_file)\fR"
File with DH parameters that the Postfix \fBtlsproxy\fR(8) server
should use with EDH ciphers.
.IP "\fBtlsproxy_tls_dh512_param_file ($smtpd_tls_dh512_param_file)\fR"
File with DH parameters that the Postfix \fBtlsproxy\fR(8) server
should use with EDH ciphers.
.IP "\fBtlsproxy_tls_dkey_file ($smtpd_tls_dkey_file)\fR"
File with the Postfix \fBtlsproxy\fR(8) server DSA private key in PEM
format.
.IP "\fBtlsproxy_tls_eccert_file ($smtpd_tls_eccert_file)\fR"
File with the Postfix \fBtlsproxy\fR(8) server ECDSA certificate in
PEM format.
.IP "\fBtlsproxy_tls_eckey_file ($smtpd_tls_eckey_file)\fR"
File with the Postfix \fBtlsproxy\fR(8) server ECDSA private key in
PEM format.
.IP "\fBtlsproxy_tls_eecdh_grade ($smtpd_tls_eecdh_grade)\fR"
The Postfix \fBtlsproxy\fR(8) server security grade for ephemeral
elliptic-curve Diffie-Hellman (EECDH) key exchange.
.IP "\fBtlsproxy_tls_exclude_ciphers ($smtpd_tls_exclude_ciphers)\fR"
List of ciphers or cipher types to exclude from the \fBtlsproxy\fR(8)
server cipher list at all TLS security levels.
.IP "\fBtlsproxy_tls_fingerprint_digest ($smtpd_tls_fingerprint_digest)\fR"
The message digest algorithm to construct remote SMTP
client-certificate
fingerprints.
.IP "\fBtlsproxy_tls_key_file ($smtpd_tls_key_file)\fR"
File with the Postfix \fBtlsproxy\fR(8) server RSA private key in PEM
format.
.IP "\fBtlsproxy_tls_loglevel ($smtpd_tls_loglevel)\fR"
Enable additional Postfix \fBtlsproxy\fR(8) server logging of TLS
activity.
.IP "\fBtlsproxy_tls_mandatory_ciphers ($smtpd_tls_mandatory_ciphers)\fR"
The minimum TLS cipher grade that the Postfix \fBtlsproxy\fR(8) server
will use with mandatory TLS encryption.
.IP "\fBtlsproxy_tls_mandatory_exclude_ciphers ($smtpd_tls_mandatory_exclude_ciphers)\fR"
Additional list of ciphers or cipher types to exclude from the
\fBtlsproxy\fR(8) server cipher list at mandatory TLS security levels.
.IP "\fBtlsproxy_tls_mandatory_protocols ($smtpd_tls_mandatory_protocols)\fR"
The SSL/TLS protocols accepted by the Postfix \fBtlsproxy\fR(8) server
with mandatory TLS encryption.
.IP "\fBtlsproxy_tls_protocols ($smtpd_tls_protocols)\fR"
List of TLS protocols that the Postfix \fBtlsproxy\fR(8) server will
exclude or include with opportunistic TLS encryption.
.IP "\fBtlsproxy_tls_req_ccert ($smtpd_tls_req_ccert)\fR"
With mandatory TLS encryption, require a trusted remote SMTP
client certificate in order to allow TLS connections to proceed.
.IP "\fBtlsproxy_tls_security_level ($smtpd_tls_security_level)\fR"
The SMTP TLS security level for the Postfix \fBtlsproxy\fR(8) server;
when a non-empty value is specified, this overrides the obsolete
parameters smtpd_use_tls and smtpd_enforce_tls.
.IP "\fBtlsproxy_tls_session_cache_timeout ($smtpd_tls_session_cache_timeout)\fR"
The expiration time of Postfix \fBtlsproxy\fR(8) server TLS session
cache information.
.SH "OBSOLETE STARTTLS SUPPORT CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
These parameters are supported for compatibility with
\fBsmtpd\fR(8) legacy parameters.
.IP "\fBtlsproxy_use_tls ($smtpd_use_tls)\fR"
Opportunistic TLS: announce STARTTLS support to remote SMTP clients,
but do not require that clients use TLS encryption.
.IP "\fBtlsproxy_enforce_tls ($smtpd_enforce_tls)\fR"
Mandatory TLS: announce STARTTLS support to remote SMTP clients, and
require that clients use TLS encryption.
.SH "RESOURCE CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBtlsproxy_watchdog_timeout (10s)\fR"
How much time a \fBtlsproxy\fR(8) process may take to process local
or remote I/O before it is terminated by a built-in watchdog timer.
.SH "MISCELLANEOUS CONTROLS"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBconfig_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
The default location of the Postfix main.cf and master.cf
configuration files.
.IP "\fBprocess_id (read-only)\fR"
The process ID of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBprocess_name (read-only)\fR"
The process name of a Postfix command or daemon process.
.IP "\fBsyslog_facility (mail)\fR"
The syslog facility of Postfix logging.
.IP "\fBsyslog_name (see 'postconf -d' output)\fR"
The mail system name that is prepended to the process name in syslog
records, so that "smtpd" becomes, for example, "postfix/smtpd".
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
postscreen(8), Postfix zombie blocker
smtpd(8), Postfix SMTP server
postconf(5), configuration parameters
syslogd(5), system logging
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
The Secure Mailer license must be distributed with this software.
.SH "HISTORY"
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
This service was introduced with Postfix version 2.8.
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
