.\"
.\" cupsaccept/reject man page for CUPS.
.\"
.\" Copyright © 2007-2019 by Apple Inc.
.\" Copyright © 1997-2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\" Licensed under Apache License v2.0.  See the file "LICENSE" for more
.\" information.
.\"
.TH cupsaccept 8 "CUPS" "26 April 2019" "Apple Inc."
.SH NAME
cupsaccept/cupsreject \- accept/reject jobs sent to a destination
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cupsaccept
[
.B \-E
] [
.B \-U
.I username
] [
.B \-h
.I hostname[:port]
]
.I destination(s)
.br
.B cupsreject
[
.B \-E
] [
.B \-U
.I username
] [
.B \-h
.I hostname[:port]
] [
.B \-r
.I reason
]
.I destination(s)
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B cupsaccept
command instructs the printing system to accept print jobs to the specified destinations.
.LP
The
.B cupsreject
command instructs the printing system to reject print jobs to the
specified destinations.
The \fI-r\fR option sets the reason for rejecting print jobs. If not specified, the reason defaults to "Reason Unknown".
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are supported by both
.B cupsaccept
and
.BR cupsreject :
.TP 5
.B \-E
Forces encryption when connecting to the server.
.TP 5
\fB-U \fIusername\fR
Sets the username that is sent when connecting to the server.
.TP 5
\fB-h \fIhostname[:port]\fR
Chooses an alternate server.
.TP 5
\fB-r \fR"\fIreason\fR"
Sets the reason string that is shown for a printer that is rejecting jobs.
.SH CONFORMING TO
The
.B cupsaccept
and
.B cupsreject
commands correspond to the System V printing system commands "accept" and "reject", respectively.
Unlike the System V printing system, CUPS allows printer names to contain any printable character except SPACE, TAB, "/", or "#".
Also, printer and class names are \fInot\fR case-sensitive.
.LP
Finally, the CUPS versions may ask the user for an access password depending on the printing system configuration.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cancel (1),
.BR cupsenable (8),
.BR lp (1),
.BR lpadmin (8),
.BR lpstat (1),
.br
CUPS Online Help (http://localhost:631/help)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \[co] 2007-2019 by Apple Inc.
