.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2004 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" @APPLE_LICENSE_HEADER_START@
.\" 
.\" This file contains Original Code and/or Modifications of Original Code
.\" as defined in and that are subject to the Apple Public Source License
.\" Version 2.0 (the 'License'). You may not use this file except in
.\" compliance with the License. Please obtain a copy of the License at
.\" http://www.opensource.apple.com/apsl/ and read it before using this
.\" file.
.\" 
.\" The Original Code and all software distributed under the License are
.\" distributed on an 'AS IS' basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AND APPLE HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL SUCH WARRANTIES,
.\" INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, QUIET ENJOYMENT OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.
.\" Please see the License for the specific language governing rights and
.\" limitations under the License.
.\" 
.\" @APPLE_LICENSE_HEADER_END@
.\"
.Dd September 3, 2004
.Dt disklabel 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm disklabel
.Nd manipulate and query an Apple Label disk label
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Fl create
.Ar disk-device
.Op Fl msize=size
.Op Ar property=value
.Op ...
.Nm
.Fl status
.Ar disk-device
.Nm
.Fl properties
.Ar disk-device
.Op Ar property[=value]
.Op ...
.Nm
.Fl destroy
.Ar disk-device
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility manipulates ``Apple Label'' partition metadata.
``Apple Label'' partitions allow for a disk device to have a consistent
name, ownership, and permissions across reboots, even though
.Os
uses a dynamic pseudofilesystem for
.Pa /dev .
.Pp
The ``Apple Label'' partition uses a set of metadata (as a plist)
in a reserved area of the partition.  This metadata describes the
owner, name, and so forth. 
.Pp
When
.Fl create
is used, the
.Fl msize
argument can specify the size of metadata area; the default
is 128Kbytes.
The default size unit is bytes, but the following suffixes
may be used to multiply by the given factor:
``b''
(512),
``k''
(1024),
``m''
(1048576), and
``g''
(1073741824).
.Pp
Although any key-value pair can be specified for the properties,
certain keys are used by the system:
.Bl -tag -width owner-mode
.It owner-uid
The user (as either a string or numeric value) to own the device.
.It owner-gid
The group (as either a string or numeric value) associated with the device.
.It owner-mode
The permissions (as a numeric value) for the device.
.It dev-name
The name for the device.
.El
.Pp
If the
.Ar owner-uid
and
.Ar owner-gid
properties are given as strings, the
.Nm
utility will attempt to look up the names (as users or groups, as appropriate),
and will store the numeric values in the metadata.  If it cannot find
the names, and the values are not given as numbers, it will print an error,
and not store the key/value pairs in the metadata.
.Pp
The
.Ar owner-mode
property may be given in decimal, or in octal by using a preceding ``0''
(e.g., ``0666'').
.Pp
Any property may be forced to be treated as a string by enclosing it
in double-quotation marks; bear in mind that shell escapes will probably
be necessary in this sitation.
.Pp
The
.Fl properties
directive can print out all keys (if no arguments are given),
a requested set of keys (if a list of key names is given), or
can modify (or add) keys (if a key-value pairs are given).
.Pp
.Nm
also maintains a checksum of the metadata; the
.Fl status
directive verifies this checksum.
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following example will create a device with 1MByte of metadata
area, owned by fred, with a device name of fred, and be writable by
fred:
.Pp
.Dl "disklabel -create /dev/rdisk1s1 -msize=1M owner-uid=fred dev-name=fred owner-mode=0644"
.Pp
The following example will then print out the key-value pairs from the above:
.Dl "disklabel -properties /dev/rdisk1s1"
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr pdisk 8
