.\"
.\"
.Dd May 25, 2017
.Dt ETHCHECK 8
.\".Os BSD 4
.Sh NAME
.Nm ethcheck
.Nd "check the integrity of Broadcom Ethernet devices' firmware."
.\""display the system message buffer"
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm ethcheck
.Cm --integrity-check
.Op -b Ar filename
.Nm
.Cm --show-hashes 
.Op -b Ar filename
.Nm
.Cm --save -b Ar filename 
.Nm
.Cm --cleanup -b Ar filename
.Nm
.Cm --version
.Nm
.Cm --help
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm Ethcheck
is an application-layer tool to check the integrity of Broadcom Ethernet devices' firmware.
.\".Nm
.Pp
The following commands can be used with ethcheck:
.Pp
.Cm --integrity-check
.\".Op -b Ar filename
attempt to automatically determine which firmware you are running, integrity check ag\
ainst the appropriate file, and report the check result. It requires root privileges.
.Pp
.Cm --integrity-check -b Ar filename
integrity check the firmware image, and report the check result. 
.Pp
.Cm --show-hashes 
print the hashes for the current system's Ethernet devices' firmware to stdout. It requires root privileges.
.Pp
.Cm --show-hashes -b Ar filename
print the hashes for the given firmware image to stdout.
.Pp
.Cm --save -b Ar filename
save this Ethernet device(s)'s firmware in file. It requires root privileges. File name(s) will begin with specificed filename and be selected according to device ID(s), machine model name, and firmware's version(s). E.g. filename-eth0-0x14e4-0x1686.nvram.bin
.Pp
.Cm --cleanup -b Ar filename
zero any privacy-sensitive data (such as MAC address), enabling the file to be shared for analysis.
.Pp
.Cm --version
print out ethcheck version number.
.Pp
.Cm --help
display a short help.
.Pp
