.\""Copyright (c) 2001-2008 Apple Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"The contents of this file constitute Original Code as defined in and are 
.\"subject to the Apple Public Source License Version 1.2 (the 'License'). 
.\"You may not use this file except in compliance with the
.\"License. Please obtain a copy of the License at 
.\"http://www.apple.com/publicsource and read it before using this file.
.\"
.\"This Original Code and all software distributed under the License are 
.\"distributed on an 'AS IS' basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER 
.\"EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AND APPLE
.\"HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL SUCH WARRANTIES, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\"WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE,
.\"QUIET ENJOYMENT OR NON-INFRINGEMENT. Please see the License for the 
.\"specific language governing rights and limitations under the License."
.Dd July 16, 2003
.Dt HFS.UTIL 8 
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME
.Nm hfs.util
.Nd HFS/HFS+ file system utility
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Fl m
.Ar device  mountpoint 
.Op Ar mountflag1
.Op Ar mountflag2
.Op Ar mountflag3
.Op Ar mountflag4
.Pp
.Nm
.Fl p
.Ar device
.Op Ar mountflag1
.Op Ar mountflag2
.Op Ar mountflag3
.Op Ar mountflag4
.Pp
.Nm
.Fl J
.Op Ar size
.Ar mountpoint
.Pp
.Nm
.Fl U
.Ar mountpoint
.Pp
.Nm
.Fl N
.Ar device
.Pp
.Nm
.Fl I
.Ar mountpoint
.Pp
.Nm
.Op Fl aksu
.Ar device
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
command supports the mounting, probing, and unmounting of HFS file systems.
.Pp
Options:
.Bl -tag -compact -offset indent
.It Fl a 
Adopt permissions for the HFS file system at
.Ar device
.It Fl I 
Print out status information about the journal on the HFS 
file system at
.Ar mountpoint
.It Fl J Op Ar size
Enable journaling on the HFS file system mounted on
.Ar mountpoint .
An optional size may
be specified (e.g. 32M for a 32 megabyte journal).
.It Fl k 
Get the UUID key for the HFS file system at
.Ar device .
.It Fl m
Mount the HFS file system located on
.Ar device
onto
.Ar mountpoint
with the flags
.Ar mountflag1 mountflag2 mountflag3 mountflag4
.It Fl M
Force mount the HFS file system located on
.Ar device
onto
.Ar mountpoint
with the flags
.Ar mountflag1 mountflag2 mountflag3 mountflag4 .
This is a deprecated option.
.It Fl N
Disable journaling on a HFS+ file system located at 
.Ar device
.It Fl p
Probe the
.Ar device
for an HFS file system using the flags
.Ar mountflag1 mountflag2 mountflag3 mountflag4
.It Fl s 
Set the UUID key (generates a new UUID value) for the
HFS file system at
.Ar device
.It Fl u 
Unmount the HFS file system located at
.Ar device
.It Fl U 
Disable journaling on the HFS+ file system mounted on
.Ar mountpoint
.El
.Pp
The
.Ar mountflags 
referenced above are either:
.Bl -bullet -compact -offset indent
.It
.Ar removable 
or
.Ar fixed
.It
.Ar readonly
or
.Ar writeable  
.It
.Ar suid
or
.Ar nosuid  
.It
.Ar dev
or
.Ar nodev
.El
.Pp
Note that for the 
.Ar device
references above, you must only supply the last component of the path to the 
device in question, such as disk0s2 rather than /dev/disk0s2. 
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.Xr diskarbitrationd 8
.Sh HISTORY
Derived from the Openstep Workspace Manager file system utility programs.
