.\""Copyright (c) 2001 Apple Computer, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"The contents of this file constitute Original Code as defined in and are 
.\"subject to the Apple Public Source License Version 1.2 (the 'License'). 
.\"You may not use this file except in compliance with the
.\"License. Please obtain a copy of the License at 
.\"http://www.apple.com/publicsource and read it before using this file.
.\"
.\"This Original Code and all software distributed under the License are 
.\"distributed on an 'AS IS' basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER 
.\"EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AND APPLE
.\"HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL SUCH WARRANTIES, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\"WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE,
.\"QUIET ENJOYMENT OR NON-INFRINGEMENT. Please see the License for the 
.\"specific language governing rights and limitations under the License."
.Dd March 24, 2001
.Dt MSDOS.UTIL 8 
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME
.Nm msdos.util
.Nd DOS/Windows (FAT) file system utility
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Fl m Ar mountflag1 mountflag2 mountflag3 mountflag4
.Ar device node
.Pp
.Nm
.Fl p Ar mountflag1 mountflag2 mountflag3 mountflag4
.Ar device
.Pp
.Nm
.Fl u
.Ar device
.Pp
.Nm
.Fl k
.Ar device
.Pp
.Nm
.Fl n
.Ar device name
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
command supports the mounting, probing, and unmounting of FAT file systems.
.Pp
Options:
.Bl -tag -compact -offset indent
.It Fl m Ar mountflag1 mountflag2 mountflag3 mountflag4
mount
.It Fl n 
set name
.It Fl p Ar mountflag1 mountflag2 mountflag3 mountflag4
probe for mounting
.It Fl u 
unmount
.It Fl k
print volume UUID
.El
.Pp
.Ar mountflags 
above are either:
.Bl -bullet -compact -offset indent
.It
.Ar removable 
or
.Ar fixed
.It
.Ar readonly
or
.Ar writeable  
.It
.Ar suid
or
.Ar nosuid  
.It
.Ar dev
or
.Ar nodev
.El
.Pp
FAT volumes do not actually have a volume UUID.
They have an optional 4-byte volume ID.
If a volume has an ID, then it will be converted to a version 3 UUID
using MD5 to checksum the kFSUUIDNamespaceSHA1 UUID folowed by the volume ID.
.Pp
For the
.Fl k
option, if the volume has a volume ID, the exit status will be 253 and the UUID
will be printed to standard out, without any trailing newline.
Otherwise, if the volume appears to be FAT, the exit status will be 255.
If the volume does not appear to be FAT, the exit status will be 254.
.Sh FILES
.Pa /System/Library/Filesystems/msdos.fs/Contents/Resources/msdos.util
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.Xr diskarbitrationd 8
.Sh HISTORY
Derived from the Openstep Workspace Manager file system utility programs.
