.Dd 9/11/15
.Dt SSH-KEYCHAIN 8
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME
.Nm ssh-keychain.dylib
.Nd smartcard/keychain support library
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The ssh-keychain.dylib library is used as a PKCS11 module replacement for the family of ssh tools. It provides
certificates on SmartCards and/or in user keychains to the tools.
.Sh OVERVIEW
By default, all valid certificates from all SmartCards currently inserted into attached readers are provided. Manual
configuration of
.Nm
is required if certificates in user keychains are desired, or if there is a need to limit which SmartCard
certificates are provided.
The public key hash is used to select which certificates should be provided.
This hash is usually in hexadecimal string form, without the leading
.Em 0x .
To determine the hash for certificate on a SmartCard, the
.Em sc_auth hash
or
.Em sc_auth identities
commands can be used. For certificates in user keychains, it is the value of the
.Em hpky
attribute from
.Em security find-certificate
output.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
Configuration passed through the environment always takes precedence over the configuration file. The
variable
.Em KEYCHAIN_CERTIFICATES
is used to specify hashes. It should contain a semicolon-separated list of public key hashes of certificates
which will be provided to the ssh tools.
.Sh CONFIG FILE
If no enviroment variable configuration is provided,
.Nm
looks for a configuration file located at
.Em ~/.ssh/sshkeychain.plist .
This file is a standard property-list with a dictionary root object. It should contain the key
.Em KeychainCertificates
with a value that is either a string or an array of strings. If a string, then the expected value is semicolon-separated list
of public key hashes like the environment variable. If the value is an array, then each hash is an array entry.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.Bd -unfilled
.It Ev Environment:
KEYCHAIN_CERTIFICATES="AE31125DA4AAA294A4FED97B815D7F8DD1A78FF3;168D2C4CDDFCDADD465BAF3E6BCFE8193D8D42D1"
ssh -o PKCS11Provider=/usr/lib/ssh-keychain.dylib machine
.Ed
.Bd -unfilled
.It Ev Configuration plist:
{
    "KeychainCertificates" => [
        0 => "AE31125DA4AAA294A4FED97B815D7F8DD1A78FF3"
        1 => "168D2C4CDDFCDADD465BAF3E6BCFE8193D8D42D1"
    ]
}
.Ed
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width "~/.ssh/sshkeychain.plist" -compact
.It Pa ~/.ssh/sshkeychain.plist
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr sc_auth 8 ,
.Xr ssh-add 1 ,
.Xr ssh_config 5
