.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.Dd 5/1/17               \" DATE 
.Dt AssetCacheLocatorService 8      \" Program name and manual section number 
.Os "macOS"
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm AssetCacheLocatorService
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line. 
.\" .Nm Other_name_for_same_program(),
.\" .Nm Yet another name for the same program.
.\" Use .Nm macro to designate other names for the documented program.
.Nd Service to find local macOS Content Caches
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
finds macOS Content Caches on the local network.
.Pp
There are no configuration options to
.Nm .
Users should not run
.Nm
manually.
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS       \" May not be needed
.Nm
logs to the
.Xr os_log 3
subsystem com.apple.AssetCacheServices category Daemon.
.\" .Bl -diag
.\" .It Diagnostic Tag
.\" Diagnostic informtion here.
.\" .It Diagnostic Tag
.\" Diagnostic informtion here.
.\" .El
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.\" List links in ascending order by section, alphabetically within a section.
.\" Please do not reference files that do not exist without filing a bug report
System Preferences > Sharing > Content Caching,
.Xr log 1 ,
.Xr AssetCache 8 ,
.Xr AssetCacheLocatorUtil 8 ,
.Xr AssetCacheManagerUtil 8
.\" .Sh BUGS              \" Document known, unremedied bugs 
.\" .Sh HISTORY           \" Document history if command behaves in a unique manner
