.\"
.\" cupsd man page for CUPS.
.\"
.\" Copyright © 2007-2019 by Apple Inc.
.\" Copyright © 1997-2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\" Licensed under Apache License v2.0.  See the file "LICENSE" for more
.\" information.
.\"
.TH cupsd 8 "CUPS" "26 April 2019" "Apple Inc."
.SH NAME
cupsd \- cups scheduler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cupsd
[
.B \-c
.I cupsd.conf
] [
.B \-f
] [
.B \-F
] [
.B \-h
] [
.B \-l
] [
.B \-s
.I cups-files.conf
] [
.B \-t
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cupsd
is the scheduler for CUPS. It implements a printing system based upon the Internet Printing Protocol, version 2.1, and supports most of the requirements for IPP Everywhere. If no options are specified on the command-line then the default configuration file
.I /etc/cups/cupsd.conf
will be used.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5
.BI \-c \ cupsd.conf
Uses the named cupsd.conf configuration file.
.TP 5
.B \-f
Run
.B cupsd
in the foreground; the default is to run in the background as a "daemon".
.TP 5
.B \-F
Run
.B cupsd
in the foreground but detach the process from the controlling terminal and current directory. This is useful for running
.B cupsd
from
.BR init (8).
.TP 5
.B \-h
Shows the program usage.
.TP 5
.B \-l
This option is passed to
.B cupsd
when it is run from
.BR launchd (8)
or
.BR systemd (8).
.TP 5
.BI \-s \ cups-files.conf
Uses the named cups-files.conf configuration file.
.TP 5
.B \-t
Test the configuration file for syntax errors.
.SH FILES
.nf
.I /etc/cups/classes.conf
.I /etc/cups/cups-files.conf
.I /etc/cups/cupsd.conf
.I /usr/share/cups/mime/mime.convs
.I /usr/share/cups/mime/mime.types
.I /etc/cups/printers.conf
.I /etc/cups/subscriptions.conf
.fi
.SH CONFORMING TO
.B cupsd
implements all of the required IPP/2.1 attributes and operations. It also implements several CUPS-specific administrative operations.
.SH EXAMPLES
Run
.B cupsd
in the background with the default configuration file:
.nf

    cupsd

.fi
Test a configuration file called
.IR test.conf :
.nf

    cupsd \-t \-c test.conf

.fi
Run
.B cupsd
in the foreground with a test configuration file called
.IR test.conf :
.nf

    cupsd \-f \-c test.conf

.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR backend (7),
.BR classes.conf (5),
.BR cups (1),
.BR cups-files.conf (5),
.BR cups-lpd (8),
.BR cupsd.conf (5),
.BR cupsd-helper (8),
.BR cupsd-logs (8),
.BR filter (7),
.BR launchd (8),
.BR mime.convs (5),
.BR mime.types (5),
.BR printers.conf (5),
.BR systemd (8),
CUPS Online Help (http://localhost:631/help)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \[co] 2007-2019 by Apple Inc.
