.Dd 20 Mar 2014
.Os "macOS"
.Dt hdik 8
.Sh NAME
.Nm hdik
.Nd lightweight tool to attach and mount disk images in-kernel
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm hdik
.Ar imagefile
.Op options
.Nm
.Fl e
.Ar device
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a simple tool that can be used to attach disk images directly to the
DiskImages driver.  The end result is functionally similar to passing
.Fl kernel
to 
.Xr hdiutil 1 Ns 's
.Sy attach
verb.
.Nm
does not rely upon the presence of DiskImages or other high-level frameworks.
.Pp
The DiskImages driver only supports a selection of disk image formats:
UDRW, UDRO, UDZO, ULFO, SPARSE (UDSP).  It also supports shadow files.
.Xr hdiutil 1 Ns 's
.Sy imageinfo
verb indicates whether a particular image is kernel compatible.
.Pp
.Nm
requires root access to perform its functions.
.Pp
In the first form, an image to attach must be provided:
.Bl -tag -width "123456789A"
.It Ar imagefile
path to the disk image file to attach.
.El
.Pp
In its second form, 
.Nm
issues an eject command to the specified
.Ar device .
The argument is the full device node path (e.g.
.Pa /dev/disk2 Ns ).
Any volumes mounted from the device must be unmounted first, or the command
will fail.  See
.Xr umount 8 .
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width "123456789A"
.It Fl shadow Op Ar shadowfile 
Use a shadow file in conjunction with the data in the image.  This option
prevents modification of the original image and allows read-only images
to be used as read/write images.  When blocks are being read from the
image, blocks present in the shadow file override blocks in the base image.
When blocks are being written, the writes will be redirected to the shadow
file.  If not specified, 
.Fl shadow 
defaults to <imagename>.shadow.  If the
shadow file does not exist, it is created.
.It Fl nomount
Suppress automatic mounting of filesystems contained within the image.  This
will result in /dev entries being created, but will not mount any volumes.
.It Fl drivekey Ar keyname=value
Specify a key/value pair for the IOHDIXHDDrive object created (shows up
in the IOKit registry of devices which is viewable with 
.Xr ioreg 8) .
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Ns Xr hdiutil 1 ,
.Ns Xr diskarbitrationd 8 ,
.Ns Xr diskutil 8 ,
.Ns Xr umount 8 ,
.Ns Xr ioreg 8
