.\" Copyright (c) 2009-2010 Apple Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.Dd January 19, 2010
.Dt NEWFS_EXFAT 8
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME
.Nm newfs_exfat
.Nd construct a new ExFAT file system
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl N
.Op Fl R
.Op Fl I Ar volume-serial-number
.Op Fl S Ar bytes-per-sector
.Op Fl a Ar sectors-per-FAT
.Op Fl b Ar bytes-per-cluster
.Op Fl c Ar sectors-per-cluster
.Op Fl n Ar number-of-FATs
.Op Fl s Ar total-sectors
.Op Fl v Ar volume-name
.Ar special
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility creates an ExFAT file system on device
.Ar special .
If the
.Fl R
option is not given, and the device is already formatted as ExFAT, it will
preserve the partition offset, bytes per cluster, FAT offset and size, number
of FATs, offset to start of clusters, number of clusters, volume serial number,
and volume name (label).  If a volume name was specified via the
.Fl v
option, that name is used instead of the volume's previous name.
.Pp
The options are as follow:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl N
Don't create a file system: just print out parameters.
.It Fl R
Do not check whether the device is currently formatted as ExFAT.  Always derive
the partition offset, bytes per cluster, FAT offset and size, and offset to
start of clusters based on the device type and size.
.It Fl I Ar volume-serial-number
Volume ID, a 32-bit integer.
.It Fl S Ar bytes-per-sector
Number of bytes per sector.  Acceptable values are powers of 2
in the range 512 through 4096.
.It Fl a Ar sectors-per-FAT
Number of sectors per FAT.
.It Fl b Ar bytes-per-cluster
File system block size (bytes per cluster).  Acceptable values are powers of 2
in the range 512 through 33554432.
.It Fl c Ar sectors-per-cluster
Sectors per cluster.  Acceptable values are powers of 2 in the range
1 through 65536.
.It Fl n Ar number-of-FATs
Number of FATs.  Acceptable values are 1 or 2.  The default is 1.  Using any
value other than 1 is discouraged, and may be incompatible with other devices.
.It Fl s Ar total-sectors
The total number of sectors in the device.
.It Fl v Ar volume-name
Volume name (label).  The name will be converted to UTF-16, and must be no
longer than 11 UTF-16 characters.  ASCII control characters and some punctuation
characters are not allowed (similar to DOS 8.3-style names).  NOTE: The volume
name may be an empty (zero-length) string.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Dl newfs_exfat /dev/disk0s1
Create a file system, using default parameters (or existing ExFAT layout),
on /dev/rdisk0s1.
.Dl newfs_exfat -v Hello disk2s1
Create a file system with the name "Hello" on /dev/rdisk2s1.
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mount_exfat 8 ,
.Xr fsck_exfat 8
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
Exit status is 0 on success and 1 on error.
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
command appeared in Mac OS X 10.6.3.
