.\"	$Id: vpnd.8,v 1.3 2003/08/23 02:21:18 callie Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2003 Apple Computer, Inc., all rights reserved.
.\" 
.Dd 21 August 2003
.Dt vpnd 8
.Os "Mac OS X"
.sp
.Sh NAME
.Nm vpnd
.Nd Mac OS X VPN service daemon
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl d | Fl n | Fl x
.Op Fl i Ar server_id
.Nm vpnd
.Op Fl h
.sp
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
allows external hosts to tunnel via L2TP over IPSec or via PPTP from
an insecure external network (such as the Internet) into a "secure"
internal network, such as a corporate network.  All traffic through
the tunnel is encrypted to provide secure communications, with L2TP/IPSec
providing a higher level of security than PPTP.
.Pp
.Nm
listens for incoming connections, pairs each one with an available
internal IP address, and passes the connection to
.Xr pppd 8
with appropriate parameters.  Parameters for
.Nm
are specified in a system configuration (plist) file in XML format.  This
file contains a dictionary of configurations each identified by a key referred to
as a server_id.  Parameters include the tunneling protocol, IP addresses
to be assigned to clients, PPP parameters etc.
.Pp
.Nm 
is launched for a particular configuration by using the -i option
which takes the server_id to be run as an argument.
.Nm
can also be run without the -i option.  In this case it will check the
configuration file for a special array which contains a list of
configurations to be run and will fork and exec a copy of
.Nm
for each server_id to be run.  Running multiple
.Nm
processes simultaneously for a particular protocol is not allowed.
.Pp
.Nm
will be launched during the boot process by a
startup item if the field
.Sy VPNSERVER
is defined in
.Pa /etc/hostconfig
with the value 
.Sy -YES- .
Typically, in this case it will be launched without the
-i option and will check the configuration file to determine which
configuration(s) are to be run.
.Pp
.Nm
logs items of interest to the system log.  A different log path can be specified
in the configuration file.
.sp
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are available:
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl d
Do not move to background and print log strings to the terminal.
.It Fl h
Print usage summary and exit.
.It Fl i
Server_id in the plist file that defines the configuration to be run.
.It Fl n
Do not move to background, print log information to the terminal,
and quit after validating the argument list.
.It Fl x
Do not move to background.
.El
.sp
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Pp
The default invocation,
.Bd -ragged -offset indent
.Nm
.Ed
.sp
will read the list of configurations to run from the configuration
file and launch them.  This default configuration may be enabled
at startup by defining
.Sy VPNSERVER
to
.Sy -YES- .
.Pp
To specify a particular configuration to run use
.Bd -ragged -offset indent
.Nm
-i server_id
.Ed
.sp
.Sh FILES & FOLDERS
.nf
/usr/sbin/vpnd
/etc/hostconfig
/System/Library/StartupItems/NetworkExtensions
/Library/Preferences/SystemConfiguration/com.apple.RemoteAccessServers.plist
.fi
.sp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr pppd 8
.Xr vpnd 5
