.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.Dd Fri March 11 2011               \" DATE 
.Dt xscertadmin 8      \" Program name and manual section number 
.Os MacOSX
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm xscertadmin
-- process Certificate Revocation Lists in an OD environment
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line. 
.\".Nm Other_name_for_same_program(),
.\".Nm Yet another name for the same program.
.\" Use .Nm macro to designate other names for the documented program.
.\".Nd This line parsed for whatis database.
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Ar command 
.Op Ar common options
.Op Ar command options
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
Manage Certificate Revocation Lists (CRLs)  in an Open Directory Environment.
.Sh COMMANDS
.Bl -ohang 
.It Cm list Oo Fl x Oc Oo Fl v Oc Oo Fl d Ao debug_level Ac Oc Oo Fl a | Ao Ar issuer_common_name Ac Oc
.It Cm add Oo Fl x Oc Oo Fl v Oc Oo Fl d Ao debug_level Ac Oc Oo Fl r Ao Ar reason_code Ac Oc Oo Fl t Ao type Ac Oc Ao Ar user/record name Ac 
.It Cm add Oo Fl x Oc Oo Fl v Oc Oo Fl d Ao debug_level Ac Oc Oo Fl r Ao Ar reason_code Ac Oc Oo Fl t Ao type Ac Oc Fl f Ao Ar file_of_names Ac 
.It Cm add Oo Fl x Oc Oo Fl v Oc Oo Fl d Ao debug_level Ac Oc Oo Fl r Ao Ar reason_code Ac Oc Fl i Ao Ar issuer_common_name Ac Fl s Ao Ar serial_number Ac 
.El
.Sh COMMON OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width stringtosetspacing12
.It Fl x/--xml
Returns output to stdout in xml format.
.It Fl v/--version
Print the version of the tool.
.It Fl d/--debug Ao Ar debug_level Ac
Sets the level of diagnostic message detail, 0 for off and 1 for on.
.El
.Sh LIST OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width stringtosetspacing12
.It Fl a/--all
List all CRLs
.El
.Sh ADD OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width stringtosetspacing12
.It Fl f/--file
A file containing names.
.It Fl i/--issuer 
The common name of the issuer of the certificate.
.It Fl r/--reason 
The revocation reason code.
.It Fl s/--serial
The serial number of the certificate to revoke.
.It Fl t/--type
The record type: user, device, computer or recordType.
.El
.Sh REASON CODES
.Bl -tag -width stringtosetspacing12
.It 0
unspecified
.It 1
keyCompromise
.It 2
cACompromise
.It 3
affiliationChanged
.It 4
superseded
.It 5
cessationOfOperation
.It 6
certificateHold
.It 9
privilegeWithdrawn
.It 10
aACompromise
.fi
.El
.\".Sh SEE ALSO 
.\" List links in ascending order by section, alphabetically within a section.
.\" Please do not reference files that do not exist without filing a bug report
.\" .Sh BUGS              \" Document known, unremedied bugs 
.\" .Sh HISTORY           \" Document history if command behaves in a unique manner
