.Dd March 6, 2009 
.Os Darwin
.Dt KEXT_LOGGING 8
.Sh NAME
.Nm kext logging
.Nd verbose/logging flags for kernel extensions (kexts) in the kernel and command-line utilities
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The kext management facilities of Mac OS X
allow for logging of kext activity at all system levels,
from the kernel to the user-space kext daemon and most command-line kext tools.
The
.Fl verbose
.Li ( Ns Fl v Ns Li )
flag of the tools provides a simple system of levels that apply a set
of lower level binary logging flags appropriate to each tool,
for maximally useful verbose output.
The binary log specification is used for kernel logging
and is also available for use with the
.Fl verbose
option when you need precise control over logging.
.Sh ENABLING LOGGING
For command-line tools the
.Fl verbose
.Li ( Ns Fl v Ns Li )
and
.Fl quiet
.Li ( Ns Fl q Ns Li )
flags control verbose output.
The
.Fl verbose
flag accepts a decimal level from 0-6 or a hexadecimal log specification,
both described below. 
The
.Fl verbose
flag temporarily sets the log spec within the kernel,
and captures any log messages from the kernel to print along with the tool's own log messages.
.Pp
If you wish to alter the logging behavior of
.Xr kextd 8 ,
you will need to edit its
.Xr launchd.plist 5
file in
.Pa /System/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.apple.kextd.plist .
.Pp
To enable kernel kext logging (in
.Pa /var/log/kernel.log )
on a long-term basis,
use the
.Sy kextlog
boot arg or
.Xr sysctl 8
parameter.
You can set it as root using
.Xr nvram 8
like so:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
.Li "nvram boot-args=" Ns Qo kextlog=0x Ns Ar logspec  Ar other_boot_args Ns Qc
.Ed
.Pp
where
.Ar logspec
is a hexadecimal log specification,
as described below under
.Dq BINARY LOG SPECIFICATION .
.Pp
.Em Caution:
Enabling logging at a high level via boot arg can greatly slow down system startup time.
.Pp
To change the
.Sy kextlog
setting at any time use
.Xr sysctl 8 :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
.Li "sysctl -w debug.kextlog=0x" Ns Ar logspec
.Ed
.Sh VERBOSE LEVELS
As mentioned, for the command-line kext tools you use the
.Fl verbose
.Li ( Ns Fl v Ns Li )
flag,
which takes an optional argument that is either a decimal level from 0-6,
or a hexadecimal log specification (described under
.Do BINARY LOG SPECIFICATION Dc Ns ).
The details of each level vary by tool, but in general they are:
.Bl -tag -width "1 (or none)"
.It 0
Errors only (that is, suppress warnings).
Tools with a
.Fl verbose
flag also support a
.Fl quiet
flag to suppress all output.
.It 1 (or none)
Basic information about program operation.
.It 2
Basic information about program progress, including files created.
.It 3
Information about individual kexts, link/load operation,
and processing of I/O Kit personalities.
.It 4
Detailed information about kext operations,
including C++ class construction/destruction,
and for archives,
about compression and architectures processed.
.It 5
Debug-level information about internal operations.
.It 6
Identical to level 5 but with bit 0x8 turned on
(see the hecadecimal log specification for details).
.El
.Sh BINARY LOG SPECIFICATION
The binary log specification is a 32-bit value comprising a log level with a bitmask
divided into several regions from the least-significant nibble
(corresponding to digits from right to left in a hexadecimal representation).
This table describes the regions and bits used;
unlisted regions and bits are reserved for future use:
.Bl -tag -width "Nibbles 1-2"
.It Nibble 0
The log level, from 0-7.
Each level includes all levels below it.
This is generally two higher than the decimal level specified with
.Fl verbose .
.Bl -inset
.It Em "Log level 0" -
Silent.
.It Em "Log level 1" -
Errors.
.It Em "Log level 2" -
Warnings.
.It Em "Log level 3" -
Basic outcome/result.
.It Em "Log level 4" -
Operation progress.
.It Em "Log level 5" -
Steps in a given operation.
.It Em "Log level 6" -
Detailed logging.
.It Em "Log level 7" -
Debug level logging.
.El
.Pp
In addition, bit 0x8 of this nibble controls
whether kext-specific log messages are always printed.
.Xr kextcache 8
and
.Xr kextunload 8
turn this bit on with their
.Fl verbose
flag.
See
.Dq PER-KEXT LOGGING
for more information.
.It Nibbles 1-2
Activity flags relevant to general tool use, as in development scenarios.
The
.Fl verbose
flag always includes these.
8 bits total.
.Bl -inset
.It Em "Nibble 1, Bit 0 (0x10)" -
General activity.
.It Em "Nibble 1, Bit 1 (0x20)" -
Load activity.
.It Em "Nibble 1, Bit 2 (0x40)" -
IPC and load settings.
.It Em "Nibble 1, Bit 3 (0x80)" -
Archive processing.
.It Em "Nibble 2" -
Reserved.
.El
.It Nibbles 3-7
Activity flags for internal operations,
for debugging the kext management system itself.
These are available only when using a hexadecimal log specification;
the
.Fl verbose
flag never includes these.
20 bits total.
.Bl -inset
.It Em "Nibble 3, Bit 0 (0x1000)" -
Kext validation.
.It Em "Nibble 3, Bit 1 (0x2000)" -
Kext authentication.
.It Em "Nibble 3, Bit 2 (0x4000)" -
Kext dependency resolution.
.It Em "Nibble 4, Bit 0 (0x10000)" -
Directory scan (booter data scan in the kernel).
.It Em "Nibble 4, Bit 1 (0x20000)" -
File I/O.
.It Em "Nibble 4, Bit 2 (0x40000)" -
Kext bookkeeping.
.It Em "Nibble 5, Bit 0 (0x100000)" -
Link activity.
.It Em "Nibble 5, Bit 1 (0x200000)" -
C++ patching activity.
.It Em "Nibbles 6-7" -
Reserved.
.El
.El
.Sh PER-KEXT LOGGING
Many log messages apply to the kext being processed.
The kernel and most of the command-line kext tools do not log
these messages by default.
You can enable these messages for an individual kext
by specifying an OSBundleEnableKextLogging
property in its
.Pa Info.plist
file with a boolean value of true.
For convenience,
.Xr kextutil 8
automatically sets this property for the kexts it is loading.
.Pp
You can activate all per-kext log messages using
level 6 with the
.Fl verbose
flag or by turning on bit 0x8 in a hexadecimal log specification.
For convenience,
.Xr kextcache 8
and
.Xr kextunload 8
do this for all verbose levels of their
.Fl verbose
flag.
.Sh MAPPING VERBOSE LEVELS TO LOG SPECIFICATIONS
Here is a list of the exact hecadecimal log specifications
applied by each of the
.Fl verbose
levels:
.Bl -tag -width "1 (or none)"
.It 0
equivalent to 0x0 for all tools.
.It (default level)
equivalent to 0xff2,
0xff9 for
.Xr kextcache 8
and
.Xr kextunload 8 ,
0xff3 for
.Xr kextd 8
and for
.Xr kextcache 8
spawned by
.Xr kextd 8 .
.It 1 (or none)
equivalent to 0xff3, or 0xffa for
.Xr kextcache 8
and
.Xr kextunload 8 .
.It 2
equivalent to 0xff4, or 0xffb for
.Xr kextcache 8
and
.Xr kextunload 8 .
.It 3
equivalent to 0xff5, or 0xffc for
.Xr kextcache 8
and
.Xr kextunload 8 .
.It 4
equivalent to 0xff6, or 0xffd for
.Xr kextcache 8
and
.Xr kextunload 8 .
.It 5
equivalent to 0xff7, or 0xffe for
.Xr kextcache 8
and
.Xr kextunload 8 .
.It 6
equivalent to 0xfff for all tools.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width "/var/log/kernel.log"
.It Pa /var/log/kernel.log
The kernel log file, where kernel kext activity is logged.
.It Pa /var/log/system.log
The system log file, where
.Xr kextd 8
activity is logged.
.It Pa /System/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.apple.kextd.plist
Edit this
.Xr launchd.plist 5
file to specify verbose logging for
.Xr kextd 8 .
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr syslog 1 ,
.Xr kextcache 8 ,
.Xr kextd 8 ,
.Xr kextlibs 8 ,
.Xr kextload 8 ,
.Xr kextunload 8 ,
.Xr kextutil 8