.Dd March 6, 2009 
.Os Darwin
.Dt KEXTUNLOAD 8
.Sh NAME
.Nm kextunload
.Nd terminate driver I/O Kit driver instances and unload kernel extensions (kexts)
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Ar options
.Op Fl -
.Op Ar kext Li \&.\|.\|.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
program is used to terminate and unregister I/O Kit objects
associated with a kernel extension (kext)
and to unload the code and personalities for that kext.
.Nm
must run with superuser privileges.
.Pp
If another loaded kext has a dependency on the kext being unloaded,
the unload will fail.
You can determine whether a kext has dependents using the
.Xr kextstat 8
tool.
.Pp
.Nm
is a formal interface for unloading kexts in the Darwin OS and
in Mac OS X.
Software and installers can rely on its presence
and invoke it in order to unload kexts.
Note that long options are present as of Mac OS X 10.6 (Snow Leopard).
.Pp
The arguments and options are:
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Ar kext
Unload the loaded kext whose bundle identifier matches
the CFBundleIdentifier of
.Ar kext .
All instances of IOService subclasses defined by the loaded kext
and in the IOService plane of the I/O Registry are terminated;
the kext is checked to make sure no instances
of its libkern C++ classes remain;
the kext's C++ static destructores and module stop routine are invoked;
then the kext's executable and IOKitPersonalities are unloaded from the kernel.
Failure at any stage prevents kext unload.
.It Fl b Ar identifier , Fl bundle-id Ar identifier
Unload executable and IOKitPersonalities (as described immediately above)
for the kext whose CFBundleIdentifier is
.Ar identifier .
.It Fl c Ar classname , Fl class Ar classname
Terminate all instances of class
.Ar classname
that are in the IOService plane of the I/O Registry,
if possible,
but do not unload the defining kext or its IOKitPersonalities.
New load requests for devices that were driven
by these terminated instances
may result in the same class being instantiated at any time.
.It Fl h , Fl help
Print a help message describing each option flag and exit with a success result,
regardless of any other options on the command line.
.It Fl m Ar identifier
Same as
.Fl b
(remains for backward compatibility).
.It Fl p , Fl personalities-only
Terminate services and remove personalities only;
do not unload kexts.
.It Fl q , Fl quiet
Quiet mode; print no informational or error messages.
.It Fl v Li [ 0-6 | 0x#### Ns Li ] , Fl verbose Li [ 0-6 | 0x#### Ns Li ]
Verbose mode; print information about program operation.
Higher levels of verbosity include all lower levels.
By default
.Nm
prints only warnings and errors.
You can specify a level from 0-6,
or a hexadecimal log specification
(as described in
.Xr kext_logging 8 Ns No ).
The levels of verbose output are:
.Bl -tag -width "1 (or none)"
.It 0
Print only errors (that is, suppress warnings); see also
.Fl quiet .
.It 1 (or none)
Print basic information about program operation.
.It 2
Prints information about unload stages.
.It 3
Prints information about removal of personalities.
.It 4
Prints information about module stop functions and C++ class destruction.
.It 5
Prints detailed information internal operations such as bookkeping.
.It 6
Identical to level 5 for
.Nm .
.El
.Pp
Unlike in other kext tools,
the
.Fl verbose
flag in
.Nm
applies to all kexts
(that is, it turns on hexadecimal bit 0x8 by default).
See
.Xr kext_logging 8
for more information on verbose logging.
.El
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Nm
exits with a zero status upon success,
or prints an error message and exits with a nonzero status upon failure.
.Sh BUGS
Many single-letter options are inconsistent in meaning
with (or directly contradictory to) the same letter options
in other kext tools.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr kextcache 8 ,
.Xr kextd 8 ,
.Xr kextload 8 ,
.Xr kextstat 8 ,
.Xr kext_logging 8
