.Dd March 6, 2009 
.Os Darwin
.Dt KEXTD 8
.Sh NAME
.Nm kextd
.Nd kernel extension server
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Ar options
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is the kernel extension server.
It runs as a standalone
.Xr launchd 8 daemon to handle requests from the kernel
and from other user-space processes
to load kernel extensions (kexts) or provide information about them.
.Sh OPTIONS
These options are available:
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Fl c , Fl no-caches
Ignore any repository cache files and scan all kext bundles
to gather information.
If this option is not given,
.Nm
attempts to use cache files and to create them
if they are out of date or don't exist.
.It Fl d , Fl debug
Debug mode; print messages to stdout/stderr rather than
the sysem log.
.It Fl h , Fl help
Print a help message describing each option flag and exit with a success result,
regardless of any other options on the command line.
.It Fl q , Fl quiet
Quiet mode; log no informational or error messages.
.It Fl v Li [ 0-6 | 0x#### Ns Li ] , Fl verbose Li [ 0-6 | 0x#### Ns Li ]
Verbose mode; print information about program operation.
Higher levels of verbosity include all lower levels.
By default
.Nm
logs at verbose level 1.
You can specify a level from 0-6,
or a hexadecimal log specification
(as described in
.Xr kext_logging 8 Ns No ).
The levels of verbose output are:
.Bl -tag -width "1 (or none)"
.It 0
Print only errors (that is, suppress warnings); see also
.Fl quiet .
.It 1 (or none)
Print basic information about program operation.
.It 2
Print information about program operation progress, client requests, and files created.
.It 3
Print information about individual kexts with an
OSBundleEnableKextLogging property set to true.
.It 4
Print information about spawned child processes.
.It 5
Print debug-level information.
.It 6
Identical to level 5 but for all kexts read by the program.
.El
.Pp
See
.Xr kext_logging 8
for more information on verbose logging.
.It Fl x , Fl safe-boot
Run
.Nm
in safe boot mode (indicating startup with the Shift key held down).
Kexts that don't specify a proper value for the OSBundleRequired
info dictionary property will not be loaded.
As of Mac OS X 10.5 (Leopard),
.Nm
determines from the kernel
whether the system has started in safe boot mode,
so this flag is no longer necessary (but may be used for testing).
In safe boot mode,
.Nm
does not use caches
(that is, this option implies the use of the
.Fl no-caches
option).
.El
.Sh RESETTING KEXTD
On Mac OS X 10.3 and later, it is possible to reset
.Nm
without terminating and restarting it, by sending it a HUP signal.  This
causes
.Nm
to rescan the Extensions folder, rebuild all its caches,
and send all I/O Kit drivers' personalities to the kernel
for a new round of driver matching.
As of Mac OS X 10.5 (Leopard),
.Nm
watches
.Pa /System/Library/Extensions/
and automatically invokes
.Xr kextcache 8
to rebuild kext caches when its modification time changes.
It also sends new drivers'
personalities to the kernel at this time.
.Pp
Installers that add new drivers can signal
.Nm
in these ways instead of requiring the computer to be restarted.
Note that if a hardware device has a driver attached when this is done,
a newly-installed driver will not match on it.
For more information, see
.Dq "Apple Developer Technical Q&A QA1319: Installing an I/O Kit Kext Without Rebooting" .
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width "/System/Library/Extensions/"
.It Pa /System/Library/Extensions/
The standard system repository of kernel extensions.
.It Pa /System/Library/Caches/com.apple.kext.caches/
Contains all kext caches for a Mac OS X 10.6 (Snow Leopard) system: prelinked kernel,
mkext, and system kext info caches.
.It Pa /usr/standalone/bootcaches.plist
Describes specific kext cache files for a Mac OS X volume.
.It Pa /System/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.apple.kextd.plist
The
.Xr launchd.plist 5
controlling the
.Nm
job.
.El
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Nm
normally never exits.
If an error occurs it exits with a nonzero status.
.Pp
.Nm
logs all error and verbose messages to the system log,
or to the console if the system log facility isn't available.
When running in debug mode all output is printed
to the standard output and error streams.
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.Xr kextcache 8 ,
.Xr kextload 8 ,
.Xr kextutil 8 ,
.Xr kextstat 8 ,
.Xr kextunload 8 ,
.Xr kextfind 8 ,
.Xr syslogd 8 ,
.Xr launchd.plist 5
