.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.\" test using groff -man krbservicesetup.8 -T ascii | more
.Dd Tue Mar 11 2003               \" DATE 
.Dt krbservicesetup 8      \" Program name and manual section number 
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm krbservicesetup
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line. 
.\" Use .Nm macro to designate other names for the documented program.
.Nd Kerberos 
.Nd Open Directory Single Sign On 
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Op Fl r Ar REALM            
-a 
.Ar admin_name          
.Op Fl p Ar password         
.Op Fl t Ar keytab         
.Op Fl f Ar setup_file         
.Op Ar service_type service_principal              
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
is used by
.Ar sso_util
to configure Kerberized services on the current host. It uses 
.Ar kadmin
to add service principals to the KDC database and create the krb5.keytab
file. And then edits/creates the config files of the given service to use 
the proper service principal.
.Nm 
knows how to configure the FTP, AFP, POP, IMAP, SMTP and SSH services shipped
by Apple in Mac OS X 10.3
.Nm
takes either a service_type, service_principal pair or a plist file
with a list of services to configure. The plist file also allows more control over
the options used when creating the principals.
.Pp                      \" Inserts a space
.Nm
arguments:
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Differs from above in tag removed
.It Fl x
Use kadmin.local instead of kadmin.
.It Fl r Ar REALM                 \"-a flag as a list item
The Kerberos realm of the server
.It Fl a Ar admin_name
Name of an administrator with priveleges to add principals to the KDC
.It Fl p Ar password
Password for the above user
.It Fl t Ar keytab
The path of the keytab file to write
.It Fl f Ar setup_file
The path of the plist file containing the list of services to be configured
.It Ar service_type service_principal 
A single service to configure
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Pp
The service_types understood by 
.Nm
are:
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Begins a tagged list 
.It afp               \" Each item preceded by .It macro
Apple Filing Protocol
.It ftp
File Transfer Protocol
.It imap
IMAP mail protocol
.It pop
POP mail protocol
.It smtp
SMTP mail protocol
.It ssh
Secure Shell
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Pp
The plist file format used by
.Nm
consists of a couple of optional boolean flag items and an array of dictionaries representing the
services to be configured.
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It	noConfig - Boolean
Flag indicating that just the service principals should be created in the KDC
.It	configOnly - Boolean
Flag indicating that the services need to be configured
.It	Services - array of dictionaries
Array of service dictionaries to be configured
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It	serviceType - string
Type of the service (see above for definitions)
.It	servicePrincipal - string
Kerberos principal name for the service
.It	option - Boolean
Options passed on to the add_princ command within
.Ar kadmin
If the boolean value is true, the option passed to 
.Ar kadmin
is the option name with a '+' prepended. If the value is false a '-' is prepended
.It	option - string
Options passed on to the add_princ command within
.Ar kadmin
If the key is foo and the string value is bar then the option passed in the 
add_princ command is "-foo bar"
.El
.El
.Pp
The options for the add_princ command are detailed in the man page for
.Ar kadmin
Some of the possibly options are restricted specifically the 
.Ar pw
and 
.Ar needchange 
commands are ignored. Every service principal is generated with the 
.Ar randkey 
option.
.Pp
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT      \" May not be needed
.\" .Bl -tag -width "ENV_VAR_1" -indent \" ENV_VAR_1 is width of the string ENV_VAR_1
.\" .It Ev ENV_VAR_1
.\" Description of ENV_VAR_1
.\" .It Ev ENV_VAR_2
.\" Description of ENV_VAR_2
.\" .El                      
.Sh FILES                \" File used or created by the topic of the man page
.Bl -tag -width "/Users/joeuser/Library/really" -compact
.It Pa /etc/krb5.keytab
The file where Kerberos stores the service principals for the services on this host
.El
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS       \" May not be needed
.\" .Bl -diag
You can add -v debug_level to the  
.Nm
command. Debug level 1 provides status information, higher levels add progressivly more
levels of detail.
.\" .El
.Sh EXAMPLES
It is better to use the configure command in 
.Ar sso_util
to configure multiple services. Here is an example of using
.Nm
to configure a FTP server in the realm FOO.ORG
.Pp
.Nm
-r FOO.ORG -a admin -p password ftp ftp/myhost.foo.org@FOO.ORG
.Pp
(the above should be all on one line)
.Pp
.Sh NOTES
The
.Nm
tool is used by the Apple Single Sign On system to set up Kerberized services integrated with the rest
of the Single Sign On components.
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.\" List links in ascending order by section, alphabetically within a section.
.\" Please do not reference files that do not exist without filing a bug report
.Xr kadmin 8 ,
.Xr kdcsetup 8 ,
.Xr sso_util 8 
.\" .Sh BUGS              \" Document known, unremedied bugs 
.\" .Sh HISTORY           \" Document history if command behaves in a unique manner 
