.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.Dd 1/24/11        \" DATE
.Dt rpcbind 8      \" Program name and manual section number
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME           \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm rpcbind
.Nd portmap
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Op Fl d
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl h Ar bindip
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm Rpcbind
is a server that converts
.Tn RPC
program numbers into
.Tn DARPA
protocol port numbers.
It is a replacement for the older
.Nm portmap
program.
.Pp
.Nm
supports the original version 2
.Nm portmap
protocol and in addition supports
the newer version 3 and version 4 protocols that are necessary for IPv6 support.
It must be running on the server in order to make
.Tn RPC
calls.
.Pp
When an
.Tn RPC
server is started, it will tell
.Nm
what address it is listening to, and what
.Tn RPC
program numbers it is prepared to serve.
When a client wishes to make an
.Tn RPC
call to a given program number,
it will first contact
.Nm
on the server machine to determine
the address where
.Tn RPC
packets should be sent.
.Pp
.Nm
is a launchd service. When the first server tries to register with
.Nm
the
.Tn RPC
library will contact launchd and arrange for rpcbind to be started.
Note it is no longer possible to run rpcbind from the command line.
.Nm
logs errors and information using
.Xr asl 3 .
.Nm
uses
.Xr hosts_access 5
for access control; note
access control patterns may only reference IP addresses.
.Pp
The following options are available and will need to be added to the
.Nm
plist file.
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl d
causes
.Nm
errors and debugging information
to be printed to the standard error output
via asl_log. This option is no longer
very useful.
.It Fl v
Enable verbose logging of access control checks.
.It Fl h
Specify specific IP addresses to bind to for UDP requests.
This option
may be specified multiple times and is typically necessary when running
on a multi-homed host.
If no
.Fl h
option is specified,
.Nm
will bind to
.Dv INADDR_ANY ,
which could lead to problems on a multi-homed host due to
.Nm
returning a UDP packet from a different IP address than it was
sent to.
Note that when specifying IP addresses with
.Fl h ,
.Nm
will automatically add
.Li 127.0.0.1
to the list.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width "/System/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.apple.rpcbind.plist"
.It Pa /System/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.apple.rpcbind.plist
.Xr launchd.plist 5
file for
.Nm .
Options should be added here.
.It Pa /usr/share/sandbox/rpcbind.sb
.Xr sandbox 7
file for
.Nm .
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr hosts_access 5 ,
.Xr launchd.plist 5 ,
.Xr launchd 8 ,
.Xr rpcinfo 8
.Sh BUGS
.Bl -item
.It
If
.Nm
crashes, all servers must be restarted.
.It
Version 4 getstat procedure is not implemented and will always return 0 and
null values.
.Tn RPC_SYSTEMERROR .
.It
.Fl h
option is not supported for
.Tn IPv6 .
.El
