.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999-2010 Apple Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" @APPLE_LICENSE_HEADER_START@
.\" 
.\" This file contains Original Code and/or Modifications of Original Code
.\" as defined in and that are subject to the Apple Public Source License
.\" Version 2.0 (the 'License'). You may not use this file except in
.\" compliance with the License. Please obtain a copy of the License at
.\" http://www.opensource.apple.com/apsl/ and read it before using this
.\" file.
.\" 
.\" The Original Code and all software distributed under the License are
.\" distributed on an 'AS IS' basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AND APPLE HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL SUCH WARRANTIES,
.\" INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, QUIET ENJOYMENT OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.
.\" Please see the License for the specific language governing rights and
.\" limitations under the License.
.\" 
.\" @APPLE_LICENSE_HEADER_END@
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Rick Macklem at The University of Guelph.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)showmount.8	8.3 (Berkeley) 3/29/95
.\"
.Dd September 26, 2010
.Dt SHOWMOUNT 8
.Os BSD 4
.Sh NAME
.Nm showmount
.Nd show remote NFS mounts on host
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm showmount
.Op Fl Ae36
.Op Fl a | d
.Op Ar host
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm showmount
shows status information about the
.Tn NFS
server on
.Ar host .
By default it prints the names of all hosts that have
.Tn NFS
file systems mounted
on the host. See
.%T "NFS: Network File System Protocol Specification" ,
RFC 1094,
Appendix A,
and
.%T "NFS: Network File System Version 3 Protocol Specification" ,
Appendix I,
for a detailed description of the protocol.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl A
Search for NFS servers advertised via Bonjour.
.It Fl a
List all mount points in the form:
.Ar host : Ns Ar dirpath
.It Fl d
List directory paths of mount points instead of hosts.
.It Fl e
Show the
.Ar host Ns 's
exports list.
.It Fl 3
Use mount protocol Version 3, compatible with NFS Version 3.
.It Fl 6
Use only IPv6 addresses to contact servers.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mount 1 ,
.Xr mountd 8 ,
.Xr nfsd 8 ,
.Xr mDNSResponder 8
.Sh BUGS
The mount daemon running on the server only has an idea of the actual mounts,
since the
.Tn NFS
server is stateless.
.Nm
will only display the information
as accurately as the mount daemon reports it.
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
utility first appeared in 4.4BSD.
