.\" Copyright (c) 2014 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" The contents of this file constitute Original Code as defined in and
.\" are subject to the Apple Public Source License Version 1.1 (the
.\" "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the
.\" License.  Please obtain a copy of the License at
.\" http://www.apple.com/publicsource and read it before using this file.
.\" 
.\" This Original Code and all software distributed under the License are
.\" distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AND APPLE HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL SUCH WARRANTIES,
.\" INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.  Please see the
.\" License for the specific language governing rights and limitations
.\" under the License.
.\" 
.
.Dd October 9, 2014
.Dt NSSystemDirectories 3
.Os Darwin
.
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm NSStartSearchPathEnumeration , NSGetNextSearchPathEnumeration
.Nd Enumeration of the filesystem paths for the various standard system directories where apps,
resources, etc. get installed.
.
.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd #include <NSSystemDirectories.h>
.Pp
.Ft NSSearchPathEnumerationState
.Fo NSStartSearchPathEnumeration
.Fa "NSSearchPathDirectory dir"
.Fa "NSSearchPathDomainMask domainMask"
.Fc
.Pp
.Ft NSSearchPathEnumerationState
.Fo NSGetNextSearchPathEnumeration
.Fa "NSSearchPathEnumerationState state"
.Fa "char *path"
.Fc
.
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm NSSystemDirectories
API returns the various standard system directories where apps, resources,
etc. get installed. Because queries can return multiple directories, the API is
in the form of an enumeration. The directories are returned in search path
order: that is, the first place to look is returned first.
.Pp
.Fn NSStartSearchPathEnumeration
begins enumeration of the filesystem paths for the specified directory and domain(s).
The return value should be passed to one or more calls to
.Fn NSGetNextSearchPathEnumeration
to obtain the filesystem path and continue the enumeration.
.Pp
.Fn NSGetNextSearchPathEnumeration
returns a filesystem path for the directory and domain(s) specified by the state value returned by
.Fn NSStartSearchPathEnumeration .
Subsequent calls to
.Fn NSGetNextSearchPathEnumeration
should pass the state value returned by the previous call to continue the
enumeration in each domain. A state value of zero will be returned when all
domains have been enumerated.
.Pp
The path buffer that is passed to
.Fn NSGetNextSearchPathEnumeration
will be filled with a null-terminated
string, possibly containing as many as PATH_MAX-1 characters.
.Pp
Some directory paths returned may not exist on the filesystem.
.Pp
Some combinations of
.Fa dir
and
.Fa domainMask
may return no directory paths.
.Pp
Directory paths returned in the user domain will contain "~" to refer to the user's directory.
.Pp
The environment variable
.Ev NEXT_ROOT
is prepended as necessary to the returned directory paths.
.Pp
.
.
.Sh DIRECTORY CONSTANTS
The following
.Fa NSSearchPathDirectory
constants are defined:
.
.Bl -tag -width 1234567890123456789012345678901
.
.It NSApplicationDirectory
Supported applications (Applications)
.It NSDemoApplicationDirectory
Unsupported applications and demonstration versions (Applications/Demos)
.It NSDeveloperApplicationDirectory
Developer applications (Developer/Applications)
Deprecated: As of Xcode 4.3, there is no longer a Developer Application directory directory;
instead, Xcode.app is a self-contained application that gets installed in the user's
Applications directory, by default, although it can be put anywhere.
.It NSAdminApplicationDirectory
System and network administration applications (Applications/Utilities)
.It NSLibraryDirectory
Various user-visible documentation, support, and configuration files, resources (Library)
.It NSDeveloperDirectory
Developer resources (Developer)
Deprecated: As of Xcode 4.3, there is no longer a Developer directory; instead, Xcode.app
is a self-contained application that gets installed in the user's Applications directory,
by default, although it can be put anywhere.
.It NSUserDirectory
User home directories (Users)
.It NSDocumentationDirectory
Location of documentation (Library/Documentation)
.It NSDocumentDirectory
Location of documents (Documents)
.It NSCoreServiceDirectory
Location of core services (Library/CoreServices)
.It NSAutosavedInformationDirectory
Location of user's autosaved documents (Library/Autosave Information)
.It NSDesktopDirectory
Location of user's desktop directory (Desktop)
.It NSCachesDirectory
Location of discardable cache files (Library/Caches)
.It NSApplicationSupportDirectory
Location of application support files (Library/Application Support)
.It NSDownloadsDirectory
Location of user's downloads directory (Downloads)
.It NSInputMethodsDirectory
Location of input methods (Library/Input Methods)
.It NSMoviesDirectory
Location of user's Movies directory (Movies)
.It NSMusicDirectory
Location of user's Music directory (Music)
.It NSPicturesDirectory
Location of user's Pictures directory (Pictures)
.It NSPrinterDescriptionDirectory
Location of system's PPDs directory (Library/Printers/PPDs)
.It NSSharedPublicDirectory
Location of user's Public sharing directory (Public)
.It NSPreferencePanesDirectory
Location of the PreferencePanes directory for use with System Preferences (Library/PreferencePanes)
.It NSAllApplicationsDirectory
All directories where applications can occur (/Applications, /Applications/Utilities, ~/Applications, etc)
.It NSAllLibrariesDirectory
All directories where resources can occur (/Library, ~/Library, /Network/Library, etc)
.
.El
.
.
.Sh DOMAIN CONSTANTS
The following
.Fa NSSearchPathDomainMask
constants are defined:
.
.Bl -tag -width 1234567890123456789012345678901
.
.It NSUserDomainMask
The user's home directory -- the place to install user's personal items
.It NSLocalDomainMask
Local to the current machine -- the place to install items available to everyone on this machine
.It NSNetworkDomainMask
Publically available location in the local area network -- the place to install items available on the network
.It NSSystemDomainMask
Provided by Apple -- can't be modified
.It NSAllDomainsMask
All domains -- all of the above and future domains
.
.El
.Pp
.
.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variable affects the execution of
.Nm NSGetNextSearchPathEnumeration :
.Bl -tag -width NEXT_ROOT
.It Ev NEXT_ROOT
If the
.Ev NEXT_ROOT
environment variable is set and the current process is not tainted by uid or gid changes,
.Ev NEXT_ROOT
is prepended as necessary to the returned directory paths.
.El
.
.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal
#include <limits.h>
#include <NSSystemDirectories.h>

char path[PATH_MAX];
NSSearchPathEnumerationState state = NSStartSearchPathEnumeration(dir, domainMask);
while ( (state = NSGetNextSearchPathEnumeration(state, path)) != 0 ) {
    // Handle directory path
}
.Ed
.
.
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm NSSystemDirectories
API first appeared in OS X version 10.0.
