.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 2001 Carnegie Mellon University.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. The name "Carnegie Mellon University" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For permission or any other legal
.\"    details, please contact  
.\"      Office of Technology Transfer
.\"      Carnegie Mellon University
.\"      5000 Forbes Avenue
.\"      Pittsburgh, PA  15213-3890
.\"      (412) 268-4387, fax: (412) 268-7395
.\"      tech-transfer@andrew.cmu.edu
.\"
.\" 4. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by Computing Services
.\"     at Carnegie Mellon University (http://www.cmu.edu/computing/)."
.\"
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN
.\" AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.TH sasl_server_userdb_checkpass_t 3 "10 July 2001" SASL "SASL man pages"
.SH NAME
sasl_server_userdb_checkpass_t \- Plaintext Password Verification Callback

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sasl/sasl.h>

.sp
.BI "int sasl_canon_user_t(sasl_conn_t " *conn ","
.BI "                      void " *context ","
.BI "			   const char " *user ", unsigned " ulen ","
.BI "                      unsigned " flags ","
.BI "                      const char " *user_realm ","
.BI "                      char " *out_user ", unsigned " out_umax ","
.BI "                      unsigned " *out_ulen ")"

.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION

.B sasl_canon_user_t
Is the callback for an application-supplied user canonicalization function.
This function is subject to the requirements that all user canonicalization
functions are: It must copy the result into the output buffers, but the
output buffers and the input buffers may be the same.

.I context
context from the callback record

.I user
and
.I ulen
Un-canonicalized username (and length)

.I flags
Either SASL_CU_AUTHID (indicating the authentication ID is being canonicalized)
or SASL_CU_AUTHZID (indicating the authorization ID is to be canonicalized)
or a bitwise OR of the the two.

.I user_realm
Realm of authentication.

.I out_user
and
.I out_umax
and
.I out_ulen
The output buffer, max length, and actual length for the username.

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
SASL callback functions should return SASL return codes. See sasl.h for a complete list. SASL_OK indicates success.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
sasl(3), sasl_callbacks(3), sasl_errors(3)
