.\"
.\" mailto.conf man page for CUPS.
.\"
.\" Copyright © 2007-2019 by Apple Inc.
.\" Copyright © 1997-2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\" Licensed under Apache License v2.0.  See the file "LICENSE" for more
.\" information.
.\"
.TH mailto.conf 5 "CUPS" "26 April 2019" "Apple Inc."
.SH NAME
mailto.conf \- configuration file for cups email notifier
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBmailto.conf\fR file defines the local mail server and email notification preferences for CUPS.
.LP
Each line in the file can be a configuration directive, a blank line, or a comment.
Configuration directives typically consist of a name and zero or more values separated by whitespace.
The configuration directive name and values are case-insensitive.
Comment lines start with the # character.
.SS DIRECTIVES
.TP 5
\fBCc \fIcc-address@domain.com\fR
Specifies an additional recipient for all email notifications.
.TP 5
\fBFrom \fIfrom-address@domain.com\fR
Specifies the sender of email notifications.
.TP 5
\fBSendmail \fIsendmail command and options\fR
Specifies the sendmail command to use when sending email notifications.
Only one \fISendmail\fR or \fISMTPServer\fR line may be present in the \fBmailto.conf\fR file.
If multiple lines are present, only the last one is used.
.TP 5
\fBSMTPServer \fIservername\fR
Specifies a SMTP server to send email notifications to.
Only one \fISendmail\fR or \fISMTPServer\fR line may be present in the \fBmailto.conf\fR file.
If multiple lines are present, only the last one is used.
.TP 5
\fBSubject \fIsubject-prefix\fR
Specifies a prefix string for the subject line of an email notification.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cupsd (8),
CUPS Online Help (http://localhost:631/help)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \[co] 2007-2019 by Apple Inc.
