.Dd 2/10/16
.Dt gcore 1
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME
.Nm gcore
.Nd get core images of running processes
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl s
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl b Ar size
.Op Fl o Ar path | Fl c Ar pathformat
.Ar pid
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm gcore
program creates a core file image of the process specified by
.Ar pid .
The resulting core file can be used with a debugger, e.g.
.Xr lldb(1) ,
to examine the state of the process.
.Pp
The following options are available:
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Fl s
Suspend the process while the core file is captured.
.It Fl v
Report progress on the dump as it proceeds.
.It Fl b Ar size
Limit the size of the core file to
.Ar size
MiBytes.
.El
.Pp
The following options control the name of the core file:
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl o Ar path
Write the core file to
.Ar path .
.It Fl c Ar pathformat
Write the core file to
.Ar pathformat .
The
.Ar pathformat
string is treated as a pathname that may contain various special
characters which cause the interpolation of strings representing
specific attributes of the process into the name.
.Pp
Each special character is introduced by the
.Cm %
character.  The format characters and their meanings are:
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Cm N
The name of the program being dumped, as reported by
.Xr ps 1 .
.It Cm U
The uid of the process being dumped, converted to a string.
.It Cm P
The pid of the process being dumped, converted to a string.
.It Cm T
The time when the core file was taken, converted to ISO 8601 format.
.It Cm %
Output a percent character.
.El
.El
.Pp
The default file name used by
.Nm gcore
is
.Ar %N-%P-%T .
By default, the core file will be written to a directory whose
name is determined from the
.Ar kern.corefile
MIB.  This can be printed or modified using
.Xr sysctl 8 .
.Pp
The directory where the core file is to be written must be
accessible to the owner of the target process.
.Pp
.Nm gcore
will not overwrite an existing file,
nor will it create missing directories in the path.
.Sh EXIT_STATUS
.Ex -std
.Pp
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width "/cores/%N-%P-%T plus" -compact
.It Pa /cores/%N-%P-%T
default pathname for the corefile.
.El
.Sh BUGS
With the
.Fl b
flag,
.Nm gcore
writes out as much data as it can up to the specified limit,
even if that results in an incomplete core image.
Such a partial core dump may confuse subsequent
programs that attempt to parse the contents of such files.
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.Xr lldb 1 ,
.Xr core 5 ,
.Xr Mach-O 5 ,
.Xr sysctl 8 ,
.Xr sudo 8 .
