.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.Dd Oct 27, 2004
.Dt mdimport 1
.Os Mac\ OS X
.Sh NAME
.Nm mdimport ,
.Nm mdimport32
.Nd import file hierarchies into the metadata datastore.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm mdimport
.Op Fl VXLArgn
.Op Fl d Ar level | category
.Op Fl w Ar delay
.Ar file | directory
.Nm mdimport32
.Op Fl VXLArgn
.Op Fl d Ar level | category
.Op Fl w Ar delay
.Ar file | directory
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm mdimport
is used to test Spotlight plug-ins, list the installed plug-ins and schema, and re-index files handled by a plug-in when a new plug-in is installed.
.Pp
.Nm mdimport32
is used in exactly the same way, but for 32 bit plugins.
.Pp
The following options are available:
.Bl -tag -width -d\ seconds
.It Fl g Ar plugin
Load the plugin at the provided path, ignoring system installed plugins.
Useful for testing plugins that have not yet been installed.
.It Fl V
Print timing information for this run of
.Nm .
.It Fl A
Print out the list of all of the attributes and their
localizations in the current language and exit.
.It Fl X
Print the schema file and exit
.It Fl r
Ask the server to reimport files for UTIs claimed by the listed plugin.
For example, the following would cause all of the chat files on the system to be reimported:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
mdimport -r /System/Library/Spotlight/Chat.mdimporter 
.Ed
.It Fl p
Print out performance information gathered during the run.
.It Fl L
Print the list of installed importers and exit.
.It Fl d Ar level
Print debugging information.
Level can be 1-4.
.It Fl n
Don't actually set the attributes on the file.
Useful for debugging.
.It Fl w Ar msecs
Wait for the specified interval between scanning files.
.El
.Pp
.Sh NOTES
The
.Fl f
switch is obsolete in Leopard and beyond.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mdfind 1 ,
.Xr mdutil 1 ,
.Xr mdls 1
.\" .Sh BUGS              \" Document known, unremedied bugs
.\" .Sh HISTORY           \" Document history if command behaves in a unique manner
