.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2015 Apple Computer, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" @APPLE_LICENSE_HEADER_START@
.\"
.\" This file contains Original Code and/or Modifications of Original Code
.\" as defined in and that are subject to the Apple Public Source License
.\" Version 2.0 (the 'License'). You may not use this file except in
.\" compliance with the License. Please obtain a copy of the License at
.\" http://www.opensource.apple.com/apsl/ and read it before using this
.\" file.
.\"
.\" The Original Code and all software distributed under the License are
.\" distributed on an 'AS IS' basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AND APPLE HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL SUCH WARRANTIES,
.\" INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, QUIET ENJOYMENT OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.
.\" Please see the License for the specific language governing rights and
.\" limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" @APPLE_LICENSE_HEADER_END@
.Dd January 14, 2015
.Dt NCCTL 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ncctl
.Nd Control
.Tn NFS
kernel credentials
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl Ar Pvh
.Bro
.Brq init | set
.Op Fl Ar F
.Fl Ar p Ar principal |
.Brq destroy | unset
.No |
.Brq list | get
.Brc
.Op Pa path ...
.Nm ncinit Op Fl Ar PvhF
.Fl Ar p principal
.Op path ...
.Nm ncdestroy Op Fl Ar Pvh
.Op path ...
.Nm nclist Op Fl Ar Pvh
.Op path ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
controls the caller's kernel
.Tn Kerberos
credentials for any of the specified path's associated
.Tn NFS
mounts.  If no paths are specified then all the caller's associated credentials for all
.Tn NFS
file systems are acted upon by the command given.
.Pp
When an
.Tn NFS
file system is mounted using
.Tn Kerberos
through the
.Dq sec=
option or by the export specified on the server, the resulting session context is stored in a table for each mount. If the user decides to finish his or her session or chooses to use a different
credential, then
.Nm
can be called to invalidate or change those credentials in the kernel.
.Pp
.Nm
supports the following commands:
.Bl -tag -width 15m
.It Ar init , Ar set
Set the mount or mounts to obtain credentials form the associated principal. Any current credential is unset.
.It Ar destroy , Ar unset
Unset the current credentials on the mount or mounts.
.It Ar list , Ar get
List the principal(s) set on the mount or mounts for this session. If
no principal was set, then display
.Dq Default credential
followed by
.Dq Bq from Aq principal name
if the access succeeded and
.Dq Bq kinit needed
if not.
If there has been no access to the file system then
display
.Dq Credentials are not set .
.El
.Pp
.Bl -tag -compact -width indent
.It Note the second synopsis is equivalent to
.Nm Op Fl Ar Pv
.Brq init | set
.Op Fl Ar F
.Fl Ar p Ar principal
.It The third synopsis is equivalent to
.Nm
.Op Fl Ar Pv
.Brq destroy | unset
.It And the last synopsis is equivalent to
.Nm
.Op Fl Ar Pv
.Brq list | get
.El
.Pp
.Tn Kerberos
keeps a collection of credentials which can be seen by using
.Pp
.Dl Nm klist Fl Ar A .
.Pp
The current default credential can be seen with
.Nm klist
without any arguments.
.Nm kswitch
can be used to switch the default to a different
.Tn Kerberos
credential.
.Nm kdestroy
can be use to remove all or a particular
.Tn Kerberos
credential.
New
.Tn Kerberos
credentials can be obtain and added to the collection
by calling
.Nm kinit
and those credentials can be used when accessing the mount.
See
.Xr kinit 1 ,
.Xr klist 1 ,
.Xr kswitch 1 ,
and
.Xr kdestroy 1 .
.Pp
.Nm
can set any principal from the associated
.Tn Kerberos
credentials or can destroy and unset credentials currently on the mount. When accessing a
.Tn Kerberos
mounted
.Tn NFS
file system, if no principal is set on the mount, when the kernel needs credentials it will make an up call to the
.Nm gssd
daemon and what ever the default credentials are available at the time
will be used.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width 15m
.It Fl Ar h , Fl - Ns Ar help
Print a help summary of the command and then exit.
.It Fl Ar v , Fl - Ns Ar verbose
Be verbose and show what file system is being operated on and any resulting errors.
.It Fl Ar P , Fl - Ns Ar nofollow
If the trailing component resolves to a symbolic link do not resolve the link but use the current path to determine any associate
.Tn NFS
file system.
.It Fl Ar p , Fl - Ns Ar principal Aq Ar principal
For the
.Ar init ,
.Ar set
and
.Nm ncinit
commands set the principal to
.Aq Ar principal .
This option is required for theses commands. This option is not valid for other commands.
.It Fl Ar F , Fl - Ns Ar force
For the
.Ar init ,
.Ar set
and
.Nm ncinit
commands to not check the presence of the required principal in the
.Tn Kerberos
cache collection.
This may be useful if
.Tn Kerberos
credentials will be obtain later.
.Bd -filled -compact
.Em WARNING :
If the credential is incorrectly set it may not work and no access
to the file system will ever be allowed until another
.Ar set
or
.Ar  unset
operation takes place.
This option is not valid for other commands.
.Ed
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Pp
If leaving for the day:
.Bd -literal
 $ kdestroy -A
 $ ncdestroy
.Ed
.Pp
Lets say a user does
.Bd -literal
 $ kinit user@FOO.COM
.Ed
.Pp
And through the
.Nm automounter
access a path /Network/Serves/someserver/Sources/foo/bar
where the mount of /Network/Servers/someserver/Sources/foo was done with user@FOO.COM.
.Bd -literal
 $ cat /Network/Servers/someserver/Sources/foo/bar
 cat: /Network/Servers/someserver/Sources/foo/bar: Permission denied
.Ed
.Pp
The user realizes that in order to have access on the server his
identity should be user2@BAR.COM. So:
.Bd -literal
 $ kinit user2@BAR.COM
 $ ncctl set -p user2@BAR.COM
.Ed
.sp
Now the local user can access bar. To see your credentials
.Bd -literal
$ nclist
/Network/Servers/someserver/Sources/foo: user2@BAR.COM
.Ed
.Pp
If the user destroys his credentials and then acquires new ones
.Bd -literal
$ ncdestroy
$ nclist -v
/private/tmp/mp                    : No credentials are set.
/Network/Servers/xs1/release       : NFS mount is not using Kerberos.
$ kinit user
user@FOO.COM's password: ******
$ klist
Credentials cache: API:648E3003-0A6B-4BB3-8447-1D5034F98EAE
	Principal: user@FOO.COM

  Issued                Expires               Principal
Dec 15 13:57:57 2014  Dec 15 23:57:57 2014  krbtgt/FOO.COM@FOO.COM
$ ls /private/tmp/mp
filesystemui.socket=	sysdiagnose.tar.gz	x
mtrecorder/		systemstats/		z
$ nclist
/private/tmp/mp                 : Default credential [from user@FOO.COM]
.Ed
.Sh NOTES
As mentioned above credentials are per session, so the console session's credential cache collection is separate for a collections
of credentials obtain in an
.Nm ssh
session even by the same user.
.Tn Kerberos
will set the default credential with
.Nm klist
or
.Nm kswitch .
However, the default credential can change without the user's knowledge, because of renewals or some other script or program in the
user's session is run and does a
.Nm kswitch
.Fn ( krb5_cc_set_default_name )
or
.Nm kinit
on the user's behalf.
.Nm kinit
may not prompt for a password if the
.Tn Kerberos
password for the principal is in the user's keychain.
.Pp
.Nm
with the
.Ar set
command will allow a user to change the mapping of the local user identity to a different one on the server. It is up to the user to
decide which identity will be used.
.Pp
Previous versions of
.Nm gssd
daemon would attempt to select credentials if they were not set, by
choosing credentials in the same realm as the server. This was imperfect and that has been removed. There may be multiple credentials in the same realm or a user may prefer a cross realm principal. It is highly recommended that after accessing a mount (typically through the
.Nm automounter )
that if the user has access to multiple credentials to set the credential on the mount that they want to use. The current default
credential will be used by the
.Nm automounter
on first mount. If you
do not explicitly set the credentials to use, then if the server
expires the credential, the client will use the current default
credential at the time of renewal and that may be a different
identity.
.Pp
If using mount directly a user can select what credential to use for
the mount and subsequently there after (at least until a new
.Nm
.Ar set
command is run) by using the
.Ar principal Ns = Ns Aq principal
option. It is also possible to select the realm to use with the
.Ar realm Ns = Ns Aq realm
option. The latter can be useful to administrators in automounter maps.
.Pp
There is currently no way to remember what the chosen identity is for a given mount after its been unmounted. So for automounted mounts
a reference it taken on the mount point so unmounts will not happen until all credentials on a mount with a set principal have been destroyed. Forced unmounts will not be effected.
.Nm nclist
or
.Nm
.Ar get
can be used to see what credentials are actually being used
and
.Nm ncdestroy
or
.NM
.Ar unset
can be used to destroy that session's credential. Accessing
the mount after its credentials have been destroyed will cause the default credential to be used until the next
.Nm ncinit
or
.Nm
.Ar set
Default credentials for an automounted
.Tn NFS
mount will not prevent the unmounting of the file system.
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
The
.Nm
command will exit with 1 if any of the supplied paths doesn't exist or there is an error returned for any path tried. If all paths
exist and no errors are returned the exit status will be 0.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr kdestroy 1 ,
.Xr kinit 1 ,
.Xr klist 1 ,
.Xr kswitch 1 ,
.Xr mount_nfs 8
.Sh BUGS
There should be an option to kdestroy to destroy cached
.Tn NFS
contexts.
