'\" te  
'\"macro stdmacro
.ds Vn Version 1.2
.ds Dt 24 September 1999
.ds Re Release 1.2.1
.ds Dp May 22 14:46
.ds Dm 2 May 22 14:
.ds Xs 51670     6
.TH GLVERTEXPOINTER 3G
.SH NAME
.B "glVertexPointer
\- define an array of vertex data
 
.SH C SPECIFICATION
void \f3glVertexPointer\fP(
GLint \fIsize\fP,
.nf
.ta \w'\f3void \fPglVertexPointer( 'u
	GLenum \fItype\fP,
	GLsizei \fIstride\fP,
	const GLvoid \fI*pointer\fP )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP \w'\fIpointer\fP\ \ 'u 
\f2size\fP
Specifies the number of coordinates per vertex; must be 2, 3, or
4. The initial value is 4.
.TP
\f2type\fP
Specifies the data type of each coordinate in the array.
Symbolic constants
\%\f3GL_SHORT\fP,
\%\f3GL_INT\fP,
\%\f3GL_FLOAT\fP,
and \%\f3GL_DOUBLE\fP 
are accepted. The initial value is \%\f3GL_FLOAT\fP. 
.TP
\f2stride\fP 
Specifies the byte offset between consecutive 
vertices. If \f2stride\fP is 0, the vertices are understood to be tightly packed in 
the array. The initial value
is 0. 
.TP
\f2pointer\fP 
Specifies a pointer to the first coordinate of the first vertex in the
array. The initial value is 0.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\%\f3glVertexPointer\fP specifies the location and data  of an array of vertex coordinates
to use when rendering.
\f2size\fP specifies the number of coordinates per vertex and
\f2type\fP the data type of
the coordinates. \f2stride\fP specifies the byte stride from one
vertex to the next allowing vertices and attributes
to be packed into a single array or stored in separate arrays.
(Single-array storage may be more efficient on some implementations;
see \%\f3glInterleavedArrays\fP.)
When a vertex array is
specified, \f2size\fP, \f2type\fP, \f2stride\fP, and \f2pointer\fP are saved as client-side
state.
.P
To enable and disable the vertex array, call \%\f3glEnableClientState\fP and
.br 
\%\f3glDisableClientState\fP with the argument \%\f3GL_VERTEX_ARRAY\fP. If
enabled, the vertex array is used when 
\%\f3glDrawArrays\fP, \%\f3glDrawElements\fP, or \%\f3glArrayElement\fP is called.
.P
Use \%\f3glDrawArrays\fP to construct a sequence of primitives (all of
the same type)
from prespecified vertex and vertex attribute arrays.
Use \%\f3glArrayElement\fP to specify primitives
by indexing vertices and vertex attributes  and \%\f3glDrawElements\fP to
construct a sequence of primitives by indexing vertices and vertex attributes.
.SH NOTES
\%\f3glVertexPointer\fP is available only if the GL version is 1.1 or greater.
.P
The vertex array is initially disabled and isn't accessed when
\%\f3glArrayElement\fP, \%\f3glDrawElements\fP or \%\f3glDrawArrays\fP is called.
.P
Execution of \%\f3glVertexPointer\fP is not allowed between the execution of
\%\f3glBegin\fP and the corresponding execution of \%\f3glEnd\fP,
but an error may or may not be generated. If no error is generated,
the operation is undefined.
.P
\%\f3glVertexPointer\fP is typically implemented on the client side.
.P
Vertex array parameters are client-side state and are therefore not
saved or restored by \%\f3glPushAttrib\fP and \%\f3glPopAttrib\fP.
Use \%\f3glPushClientAttrib\fP and \%\f3glPopClientAttrib\fP instead.
.SH ERRORS
\%\f3GL_INVALID_VALUE\fP is generated if \f2size\fP is not 2, 3, or 4.
.P
\%\f3GL_INVALID_ENUM\fP is generated if \f2type\fP is is not an accepted value.
.P
\%\f3GL_INVALID_VALUE\fP is generated if \f2stride\fP is negative.
.SH ASSOCIATED GETS  
\%\f3glIsEnabled\fP with argument \%\f3GL_VERTEX_ARRAY\fP
.br
\%\f3glGet\fP with argument \%\f3GL_VERTEX_ARRAY_SIZE\fP
.br
\%\f3glGet\fP with argument \%\f3GL_VERTEX_ARRAY_TYPE\fP
.br
\%\f3glGet\fP with argument \%\f3GL_VERTEX_ARRAY_STRIDE\fP
.br
\%\f3glGetPointerv\fP with argument \%\f3GL_VERTEX_ARRAY_POINTER\fP
.SH SEE ALSO 
\%\f3glArrayElement\fP,
\%\f3glColorPointer\fP,
\%\f3glDrawArrays\fP,
\%\f3glDrawElements\fP,
\%\f3glDrawRangeElements\fP,
\%\f3glEdgeFlagPointer\fP,
\%\f3glEnable\fP,
\%\f3glGetPointerv\fP,
\%\f3glIndexPointer\fP,
\%\f3glInterleavedArrays\fP,
\%\f3glNormalPointer\fP,
\%\f3glPopClientAttrib\fP,
\%\f3glPushClientAttrib\fP,
\%\f3glTexCoordPointer\fP
