.lf 1 stdin
.TH LDAP_COMPARE 3 "2011/11/24" "OpenLDAP 2.4.28"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-2011 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldap_compare, ldap_compare_s, ldap_compare_ext, ldap_compare_ext_s \- Perform an LDAP compare operation.
.SH LIBRARY
OpenLDAP LDAP (libldap, \-lldap)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <ldap.h>
.LP
.ft B
int ldap_compare_ext(
.RS
.ft B
LDAP *\fIld\fB,
char *\fIdn\fB,
char *\fIattr\fB,
const struct berval *\fIbvalue\fB,
LDAPControl **\fIserverctrls\fB,
LDAPControl **\fIclientctrls\fB,
int *\fImsgidp\fB );
.RE
.LP
.ft B
int ldap_compare_ext_s(
.RS
.ft B
LDAP *\fIld\fB,
char *\fIdn\fB,
char *\fIattr\fB,
const struct berval *\fIbvalue\fB,
LDAPControl **\fIserverctrls\fB,
LDAPControl **\fIclientctrls\fB );
.RE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B ldap_compare_ext_s()
routine is used to perform an LDAP compare operation synchronously.
It takes \fIdn\fP, the DN of the entry upon which to perform the
compare, and \fIattr\fP and \fIvalue\fP, the attribute description and
value to compare to those found in the entry.  It returns a code, which
will be LDAP_COMPARE_TRUE if the entry contains the attribute value and
LDAP_COMPARE_FALSE if it does not.  Otherwise, an error code is
returned that indicates the nature of the problem.  See
.BR ldap (3)
for details.
.LP
The
.B ldap_compare_ext()
routine is used to perform an LDAP compare operation
asynchronously.  It takes the same parameters as
.BR ldap_compare_ext_s() ,
but provides the message id of the request it initiated in the
integer pointed to \fImsgidp\fP.  The result of
the compare can be obtained by a subsequent call to
.BR ldap_result (3).
.LP
Both routines allow server and client controls to be specified to
extend the compare request.
.SH DEPRECATED INTERFACES
The routines
.BR ldap_compare ()
and
.BR ldap_compare_s ()
are deprecated in favor of
.BR ldap_compare_ext ()
and
.BR ldap_compare_ext_s (),
respectively.
.LP
.lf 1 ./Deprecated
Deprecated interfaces generally remain in the library.  The macro
LDAP_DEPRECATED can be defined to a non-zero value
(e.g., -DLDAP_DEPRECATED=1) when compiling program designed to use
deprecated interfaces.  It is recommended that developers writing new
programs, or updating old programs, avoid use of deprecated interfaces.
Over time, it is expected that documentation (and, eventually, support) for
deprecated interfaces to be eliminated.
.lf 75 stdin
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ldap (3),
.BR ldap_error (3)
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.lf 1 ./../Project
.\" Shared Project Acknowledgement Text
.B "OpenLDAP Software"
is developed and maintained by The OpenLDAP Project <http://www.openldap.org/>.
.B "OpenLDAP Software"
is derived from University of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.  
.lf 80 stdin
