.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 2001 Carnegie Mellon University.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. The name "Carnegie Mellon University" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For permission or any other legal
.\"    details, please contact  
.\"      Office of Technology Transfer
.\"      Carnegie Mellon University
.\"      5000 Forbes Avenue
.\"      Pittsburgh, PA  15213-3890
.\"      (412) 268-4387, fax: (412) 268-7395
.\"      tech-transfer@andrew.cmu.edu
.\"
.\" 4. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by Computing Services
.\"     at Carnegie Mellon University (http://www.cmu.edu/computing/)."
.\"
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN
.\" AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.TH sasl_auxprop 3 "10 July 2001" SASL "SASL man pages"
.SH NAME
sasl_auxprop \- How to work with SASL auxiliary properties

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sasl/prop.h>

.BI "struct propctx *prop_new(unsigned " estimate ") "

.BI "int prop_dup(struct propctx " *src_ctx ", "
.BI "             struct propctx " *dst_ctx ")"

.BI "int prop_request(struct propctx " *ctx ", "
.BI "                 const char " **names ")"

.BI "const struct propval *prop_get(struct propctx " *ctx ")"

.BI "int prop_getnames(struct propctx " *ctx ", const char " **names ","
.BI "                  struct porpval " *vals ")"

.BI "void prop_clear(struct propctx " *ctx ", int " requests ")"

.BI "void prop_erase(struct propctx " *ctx ", const char " *name ")"

.BI "void prop_dispose(struct propctx " **ctx ")"

.BI "int prop_format(struct propctx " *ctx ", const char " *sep ", int " seplen ", "
.BI "                char " *outbuf ", unsigned " outmax ", unsigned " *outlen ")"

.BI "int prop_set(struct propctx " *ctx ", const char " *name ","
.BI "             const char " *value ", int " vallen ")"

.BI "int prop_setvals(struct propctx " *ctx ", const char " *name ","
.BI "                 const char " **values ")"
.SH DESCRIPTION

.B SASL auxiliary properties
are used to obtain properties from external sources during the authentication
process.  For example, a mechanism might need to query an LDAP server to
obtain the authentication secret.  The application probably needs other
information from there as well, such as home directory or UID.  The
auxiliary property interface allows the two to cooperate, and only results
in a single query against the LDAP server (or other property sources).

Property lookups take place directly after user canonicalization occurs.
Therefore, all requests should be registered with he context before that
time.  Note that requests can also be registered using the
sasl_auxprop_request(3) function.  Most of the functions listed below, 
however, require a property context which can be obtained by calling
sasl_auxprop_getctx(3).

.SH API Description
.TP 0.8i
struct propctx *prop_new(unsigned estimate)
Create a new property context.  Probably unnecessary for application
developers to call this at any point.

.I estimate
is the estimate of storage needed total for requests & responses.
A value of 0 will imply the library default.

.TP 0.8i
int prop_dup(struct propctx *src_ctx, struct propctx *dst_ctx)

Duplicate a given property context.

.TP 0.8i
int prop_request(struct propctx *ctx, const char **names)

Add properties to the request list of a given context.

.I names
is the NULL-terminated array of property names, and must persist until
the requests are cleared or the context is disposed of with a call
to prop_dispose.

.TP 0.8i
const struct propval *prop_get(struct propctx *ctx)

Returns a NULL-terminated array of struct propval from the given context.

.TP 0.8i
int prop_getnames(struct propctx *ctx, const char **names,
                  struct porpval *vals)

Fill in a (provided) array of struct propval based on a list of property
names.  This implies that the vals array is at least as long as the
names array. The values that are filled in by this call
persist until next call to prop_request, prop_clear,
or prop_dispose on context.  If a name specified here was never requested,
that its associated values entry will be set to NULL.

Returns number of matching properties that were found, or a SASL error code.

.TP 0.8i
void prop_clear(struct propctx *ctx, int requests)

Clear values and optionally requests from a property context.

.I requests
is 1 if the requests should be cleared, 0 otherwise.

.TP 0.8i
void prop_erase(struct propctx *ctx, const char *name)

Securely erase the value of a property.

.I name
is the name of the property to erase.

.TP 0.8i
void prop_dispose(struct propctx **ctx)

Disposes of a property context and NULLifys the pointer.

.TP 0.8i
int prop_format(struct propctx *ctx, const char *sep, int seplen,
                char *outbuf, unsigned outmax, unsigned *outlen)

Format the requested property names into a string.  This not intended
for use by the application (only by auxprop plugins).

.I sep
Is the separator to use for the string

.I outbuf
Is the caller-allocated buffer of length
.I outmax
that the resulting string will be placed in (including NUL terminator).

.I outlen
if non-NULL, will contain the length of the resulting string (excluding NUL terminator).

.TP 0.8i
int prop_set(struct propctx *ctx, const char *name, const char *value,
             int vallen)

Adds a property value to the context.  This is intended for use by auxprop
plugins only.

.I name
is the name of the property to receive the new value, or NULL, which
implies that the value will be added to the same property as the last
call to either prop_set or prop_setvals.

.I value
is a value for the property of length
.I vallen

.TP 0.8i
int prop_setvals(struct propctx *ctx, const char *name, const char **values)

Adds multiple values to a single property.  This is intended for use by
auxprop plugins only.

.I name
has the same meaning as in 
.B prop_set

.I values
are a NULL-terminated array of values to be added the property.

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The property functions that return an int return SASL error codes.
See sasl_errors(3).  Those that return pointers will return a valid pointer
on success, or NULL on any error.

.SH "CONFORMING TO"
RFC 4422

.SH "SEE ALSO"
sasl(3), sasl_errors(3), sasl_auxprop_request(3), sasl_auxprop_getctx(3)
