.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 2001 Carnegie Mellon University.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. The name "Carnegie Mellon University" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For permission or any other legal
.\"    details, please contact  
.\"      Office of Technology Transfer
.\"      Carnegie Mellon University
.\"      5000 Forbes Avenue
.\"      Pittsburgh, PA  15213-3890
.\"      (412) 268-4387, fax: (412) 268-7395
.\"      tech-transfer@andrew.cmu.edu
.\"
.\" 4. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by Computing Services
.\"     at Carnegie Mellon University (http://www.cmu.edu/computing/)."
.\"
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN
.\" AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.TH sasl_verifyfile_t 3 "10 July 2001" SASL "SASL man pages"
.SH NAME
sasl_verifyfile_t \- The SASL file verification


.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sasl/sasl.h>

.sp
.BI "typedef enum {"
    SASL_VRFY_PLUGIN, /* a DLL/shared library plugin */
    SASL_VRFY_CONF,   /* a configuration file */
    SASL_VRFY_PASSWD, /* a password storage file */
    SASL_VRFY_OTHER   /* some other file type */
.BI "} sasl_verify_type_t"

.BI "int sasl_verifyfile_t(void " *context ", "
.BI "			   const char " *file ","
.BI "                      sasl_verify_type_t " type ")"

.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION

.B sasl_verifyfile_t
is used to check whether a given file is okay for use by the SASL library.
this is intended to allow applications to sanity check the environment to
ensure that plugins or the config file cannot be written to, etc.

.I context
context from the callback record

.I file
full path of the file to verify

.I type
type of the file.

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
SASL callback functions should return SASL return codes. See sasl.h for a complete list. SASL_OK indicates success.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
sasl(3), sasl_callbacks(3)
