'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 1995-1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
'\"
'\" See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
'\" of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
'\" 
'\" RCS: @(#) $Id: CrtSlave.3,v 1.20 2007/12/13 15:22:30 dgp Exp $
'\" 
.\" The -*- nroff -*- definitions below are for supplemental macros used
.\" in Tcl/Tk manual entries.
.\"
.\" .AP type name in/out ?indent?
.\"	Start paragraph describing an argument to a library procedure.
.\"	type is type of argument (int, etc.), in/out is either "in", "out",
.\"	or "in/out" to describe whether procedure reads or modifies arg,
.\"	and indent is equivalent to second arg of .IP (shouldn't ever be
.\"	needed;  use .AS below instead)
.\"
.\" .AS ?type? ?name?
.\"	Give maximum sizes of arguments for setting tab stops.  Type and
.\"	name are examples of largest possible arguments that will be passed
.\"	to .AP later.  If args are omitted, default tab stops are used.
.\"
.\" .BS
.\"	Start box enclosure.  From here until next .BE, everything will be
.\"	enclosed in one large box.
.\"
.\" .BE
.\"	End of box enclosure.
.\"
.\" .CS
.\"	Begin code excerpt.
.\"
.\" .CE
.\"	End code excerpt.
.\"
.\" .VS ?version? ?br?
.\"	Begin vertical sidebar, for use in marking newly-changed parts
.\"	of man pages.  The first argument is ignored and used for recording
.\"	the version when the .VS was added, so that the sidebars can be
.\"	found and removed when they reach a certain age.  If another argument
.\"	is present, then a line break is forced before starting the sidebar.
.\"
.\" .VE
.\"	End of vertical sidebar.
.\"
.\" .DS
.\"	Begin an indented unfilled display.
.\"
.\" .DE
.\"	End of indented unfilled display.
.\"
.\" .SO ?manpage?
.\"	Start of list of standard options for a Tk widget. The manpage
.\"	argument defines where to look up the standard options; if
.\"	omitted, defaults to "options". The options follow on successive
.\"	lines, in three columns separated by tabs.
.\"
.\" .SE
.\"	End of list of standard options for a Tk widget.
.\"
.\" .OP cmdName dbName dbClass
.\"	Start of description of a specific option.  cmdName gives the
.\"	option's name as specified in the class command, dbName gives
.\"	the option's name in the option database, and dbClass gives
.\"	the option's class in the option database.
.\"
.\" .UL arg1 arg2
.\"	Print arg1 underlined, then print arg2 normally.
.\"
.\" .QW arg1 ?arg2?
.\"	Print arg1 in quotes, then arg2 normally (for trailing punctuation).
.\"
.\" .PQ arg1 ?arg2?
.\"	Print an open parenthesis, arg1 in quotes, then arg2 normally
.\"	(for trailing punctuation) and then a closing parenthesis.
.\"
.\" RCS: @(#) $Id: man.macros,v 1.9 2008/01/29 15:32:33 dkf Exp $
.\"
.\"	# Set up traps and other miscellaneous stuff for Tcl/Tk man pages.
.if t .wh -1.3i ^B
.nr ^l \n(.l
.ad b
.\"	# Start an argument description
.de AP
.ie !"\\$4"" .TP \\$4
.el \{\
.   ie !"\\$2"" .TP \\n()Cu
.   el          .TP 15
.\}
.ta \\n()Au \\n()Bu
.ie !"\\$3"" \{\
\&\\$1 \\fI\\$2\\fP (\\$3)
.\".b
.\}
.el \{\
.br
.ie !"\\$2"" \{\
\&\\$1	\\fI\\$2\\fP
.\}
.el \{\
\&\\fI\\$1\\fP
.\}
.\}
..
.\"	# define tabbing values for .AP
.de AS
.nr )A 10n
.if !"\\$1"" .nr )A \\w'\\$1'u+3n
.nr )B \\n()Au+15n
.\"
.if !"\\$2"" .nr )B \\w'\\$2'u+\\n()Au+3n
.nr )C \\n()Bu+\\w'(in/out)'u+2n
..
.AS Tcl_Interp Tcl_CreateInterp in/out
.\"	# BS - start boxed text
.\"	# ^y = starting y location
.\"	# ^b = 1
.de BS
.br
.mk ^y
.nr ^b 1u
.if n .nf
.if n .ti 0
.if n \l'\\n(.lu\(ul'
.if n .fi
..
.\"	# BE - end boxed text (draw box now)
.de BE
.nf
.ti 0
.mk ^t
.ie n \l'\\n(^lu\(ul'
.el \{\
.\"	Draw four-sided box normally, but don't draw top of
.\"	box if the box started on an earlier page.
.ie !\\n(^b-1 \{\
\h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\l'\\n(^lu+3n\(ul'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\l'|0u-1.5n\(ul'
.\}
.el \}\
\h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\h'\\n(^lu+3n'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\l'|0u-1.5n\(ul'
.\}
.\}
.fi
.br
.nr ^b 0
..
.\"	# VS - start vertical sidebar
.\"	# ^Y = starting y location
.\"	# ^v = 1 (for troff;  for nroff this doesn't matter)
.de VS
.if !"\\$2"" .br
.mk ^Y
.ie n 'mc \s12\(br\s0
.el .nr ^v 1u
..
.\"	# VE - end of vertical sidebar
.de VE
.ie n 'mc
.el \{\
.ev 2
.nf
.ti 0
.mk ^t
\h'|\\n(^lu+3n'\L'|\\n(^Yu-1v\(bv'\v'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^Yu'\h'-|\\n(^lu+3n'
.sp -1
.fi
.ev
.\}
.nr ^v 0
..
.\"	# Special macro to handle page bottom:  finish off current
.\"	# box/sidebar if in box/sidebar mode, then invoked standard
.\"	# page bottom macro.
.de ^B
.ev 2
'ti 0
'nf
.mk ^t
.if \\n(^b \{\
.\"	Draw three-sided box if this is the box's first page,
.\"	draw two sides but no top otherwise.
.ie !\\n(^b-1 \h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\l'\\n(^lu+3n\(ul'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\h'|0u'\c
.el \h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\h'\\n(^lu+3n'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\h'|0u'\c
.\}
.if \\n(^v \{\
.nr ^x \\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^Yu
\kx\h'-\\nxu'\h'|\\n(^lu+3n'\ky\L'-\\n(^xu'\v'\\n(^xu'\h'|0u'\c
.\}
.bp
'fi
.ev
.if \\n(^b \{\
.mk ^y
.nr ^b 2
.\}
.if \\n(^v \{\
.mk ^Y
.\}
..
.\"	# DS - begin display
.de DS
.RS
.nf
.sp
..
.\"	# DE - end display
.de DE
.fi
.RE
.sp
..
.\"	# SO - start of list of standard options
.de SO
'ie '\\$1'' .ds So \\fBoptions\\fR
'el .ds So \\fB\\$1\\fR
.SH "STANDARD OPTIONS"
.LP
.nf
.ta 5.5c 11c
.ft B
..
.\"	# SE - end of list of standard options
.de SE
.fi
.ft R
.LP
See the \\*(So manual entry for details on the standard options.
..
.\"	# OP - start of full description for a single option
.de OP
.LP
.nf
.ta 4c
Command-Line Name:	\\fB\\$1\\fR
Database Name:	\\fB\\$2\\fR
Database Class:	\\fB\\$3\\fR
.fi
.IP
..
.\"	# CS - begin code excerpt
.de CS
.RS
.nf
.ta .25i .5i .75i 1i
..
.\"	# CE - end code excerpt
.de CE
.fi
.RE
..
.\"	# UL - underline word
.de UL
\\$1\l'|0\(ul'\\$2
..
.\"	# QW - apply quotation marks to word
.de QW
.ie '\\*(lq'"' ``\\$1''\\$2
.\"" fix emacs highlighting
.el \\*(lq\\$1\\*(rq\\$2
..
.\"	# PQ - apply parens and quotation marks to word
.de PQ
.ie '\\*(lq'"' (``\\$1''\\$2)\\$3
.\"" fix emacs highlighting
.el (\\*(lq\\$1\\*(rq\\$2)\\$3
..
.\"	# QR - quoted range
.de QR
.ie '\\*(lq'"' ``\\$1''\\-``\\$2''\\$3
.\"" fix emacs highlighting
.el \\*(lq\\$1\\*(rq\\-\\*(lq\\$2\\*(rq\\$3
..
.\"	# MT - "empty" string
.de MT
.QW ""
..
.TH Tcl_CreateSlave 3 7.6 Tcl "Tcl Library Procedures"
.BS
.SH NAME
Tcl_IsSafe, Tcl_MakeSafe, Tcl_CreateSlave, Tcl_GetSlave, Tcl_GetMaster, Tcl_GetInterpPath, Tcl_CreateAlias, Tcl_CreateAliasObj, Tcl_GetAlias, Tcl_GetAliasObj, Tcl_ExposeCommand, Tcl_HideCommand \- manage multiple Tcl interpreters, aliases and hidden commands
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <tcl.h>\fR
.sp
int
\fBTcl_IsSafe\fR(\fIinterp\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTcl_MakeSafe\fR(\fIinterp\fR)
.sp
Tcl_Interp *
\fBTcl_CreateSlave\fR(\fIinterp, slaveName, isSafe\fR)
.sp
Tcl_Interp *
\fBTcl_GetSlave\fR(\fIinterp, slaveName\fR)
.sp
Tcl_Interp *
\fBTcl_GetMaster\fR(\fIinterp\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTcl_GetInterpPath\fR(\fIaskingInterp, slaveInterp\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTcl_CreateAlias\fR(\fIslaveInterp, slaveCmd, targetInterp, targetCmd,
                argc, argv\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTcl_CreateAliasObj\fR(\fIslaveInterp, slaveCmd, targetInterp, targetCmd,
                   objc, objv\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTcl_GetAlias\fR(\fIinterp, slaveCmd, targetInterpPtr, targetCmdPtr,
             argcPtr, argvPtr\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTcl_GetAliasObj\fR(\fIinterp, slaveCmd, targetInterpPtr, targetCmdPtr,
                objcPtr, objvPtr\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTcl_ExposeCommand\fR(\fIinterp, hiddenCmdName, cmdName\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTcl_HideCommand\fR(\fIinterp, cmdName, hiddenCmdName\fR)
.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS "const char *const" **targetInterpPtr out
.AP Tcl_Interp *interp in
Interpreter in which to execute the specified command.
.AP "const char" *slaveName in
Name of slave interpreter to create or manipulate.
.AP int isSafe in
If non-zero, a
.QW safe
slave that is suitable for running untrusted code
is created, otherwise a trusted slave is created.
.AP Tcl_Interp *slaveInterp in
Interpreter to use for creating the source command for an alias (see
below).
.AP "const char" *slaveCmd in
Name of source command for alias.
.AP Tcl_Interp *targetInterp in
Interpreter that contains the target command for an alias.
.AP "const char" *targetCmd in
Name of target command for alias in \fItargetInterp\fR.
.AP int argc in
Count of additional arguments to pass to the alias command.
.AP "const char *const" *argv in
Vector of strings, the additional arguments to pass to the alias command.
This storage is owned by the caller.
.AP int objc in
Count of additional object arguments to pass to the alias object command.
.AP Tcl_Obj **objv in
Vector of Tcl_Obj structures, the additional object arguments to pass to
the alias object command.
This storage is owned by the caller.
.AP Tcl_Interp **targetInterpPtr in
Pointer to location to store the address of the interpreter where a target
command is defined for an alias.
.AP "const char" **targetCmdPtr out
Pointer to location to store the address of the name of the target command
for an alias.
.AP int *argcPtr out
Pointer to location to store count of additional arguments to be passed to
the alias. The location is in storage owned by the caller.
.AP "const char" ***argvPtr out
Pointer to location to store a vector of strings, the additional arguments
to pass to an alias. The location is in storage owned by the caller, the
vector of strings is owned by the called function.
.AP int *objcPtr out
Pointer to location to store count of additional object arguments to be
passed to the alias. The location is in storage owned by the caller.
.AP Tcl_Obj ***objvPtr out
Pointer to location to store a vector of Tcl_Obj structures, the additional
arguments to pass to an object alias command. The location is in storage
owned by the caller, the vector of Tcl_Obj structures is owned by the
called function.
.AP "const char" *cmdName in
Name of an exposed command to hide or create.
.AP "const char" *hiddenCmdName in
Name under which a hidden command is stored and with which it can be
exposed or invoked.
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
These procedures are intended for access to the multiple interpreter
facility from inside C programs. They enable managing multiple interpreters
in a hierarchical relationship, and the management of aliases, commands
that when invoked in one interpreter execute a command in another
interpreter. The return value for those procedures that return an \fBint\fR
is either \fBTCL_OK\fR or \fBTCL_ERROR\fR. If \fBTCL_ERROR\fR is returned
then the \fBresult\fR field of the interpreter contains an error message.
.PP
\fBTcl_CreateSlave\fR creates a new interpreter as a slave of \fIinterp\fR.
It also creates a slave command named \fIslaveName\fR in \fIinterp\fR which 
allows \fIinterp\fR to manipulate the new slave. 
If \fIisSafe\fR is zero, the command creates a trusted slave in which Tcl
code has access to all the Tcl commands.
If it is \fB1\fR, the command creates a
.QW safe
slave in which Tcl code has access only to set of Tcl commands defined as
.QW "Safe Tcl" ;
see the manual entry for the Tcl \fBinterp\fR command for details.
If the creation of the new slave interpreter failed, \fBNULL\fR is returned.
.PP
\fBTcl_IsSafe\fR returns \fB1\fR if \fIinterp\fR is
.QW safe
(was created with the \fBTCL_SAFE_INTERPRETER\fR flag specified),
\fB0\fR otherwise.
.PP
\fBTcl_MakeSafe\fR marks \fIinterp\fR as
.QW safe ,
so that future
calls to \fBTcl_IsSafe\fR will return 1.  It also removes all known
potentially-unsafe core functionality (both commands and variables)
from \fIinterp\fR.  However, it cannot know what parts of an extension
or application are safe and does not make any attempt to remove those
parts, so safety is not guaranteed after calling \fBTcl_MakeSafe\fR.
Callers will want to take care with their use of \fBTcl_MakeSafe\fR
to avoid false claims of safety.  For many situations, \fBTcl_CreateSlave\fR
may be a better choice, since it creates interpreters in a known-safe state.
.PP
\fBTcl_GetSlave\fR returns a pointer to a slave interpreter of
\fIinterp\fR. The slave interpreter is identified by \fIslaveName\fR.
If no such slave interpreter exists, \fBNULL\fR is returned.
.PP
\fBTcl_GetMaster\fR returns a pointer to the master interpreter of
\fIinterp\fR. If \fIinterp\fR has no master (it is a
top-level interpreter) then \fBNULL\fR is returned.
.PP
\fBTcl_GetInterpPath\fR sets the \fIresult\fR field in \fIaskingInterp\fR
to the relative path between \fIaskingInterp\fR and \fIslaveInterp\fR;
\fIslaveInterp\fR must be a slave of \fIaskingInterp\fR. If the computation
of the relative path succeeds, \fBTCL_OK\fR is returned, else
\fBTCL_ERROR\fR is returned and the \fIresult\fR field in
\fIaskingInterp\fR contains the error message.
.PP
\fBTcl_CreateAlias\fR creates an object command named \fIslaveCmd\fR in
\fIslaveInterp\fR that when invoked, will cause the command \fItargetCmd\fR
to be invoked in \fItargetInterp\fR. The arguments specified by the strings
contained in \fIargv\fR are always prepended to any arguments supplied in the
invocation of \fIslaveCmd\fR and passed to \fItargetCmd\fR.
This operation returns \fBTCL_OK\fR if it succeeds, or \fBTCL_ERROR\fR if
it fails; in that case, an error message is left in the object result
of \fIslaveInterp\fR.
Note that there are no restrictions on the ancestry relationship (as
created by \fBTcl_CreateSlave\fR) between \fIslaveInterp\fR and
\fItargetInterp\fR. Any two interpreters can be used, without any
restrictions on how they are related.
.PP
\fBTcl_CreateAliasObj\fR is similar to \fBTcl_CreateAlias\fR except 
that it takes a vector of objects to pass as additional arguments instead
of a vector of strings.
.PP
\fBTcl_GetAlias\fR returns information about an alias \fIaliasName\fR
in \fIinterp\fR. Any of the result fields can be \fBNULL\fR, in
which case the corresponding datum is not returned. If a result field is
non\-\fBNULL\fR, the address indicated is set to the corresponding datum.
For example, if \fItargetNamePtr\fR is non\-\fBNULL\fR it is set to a
pointer to the string containing the name of the target command.
.PP
\fBTcl_GetAliasObj\fR is similar to \fBTcl_GetAlias\fR except that it
returns a pointer to a vector of Tcl_Obj structures instead of a vector of
strings.
.PP
\fBTcl_ExposeCommand\fR moves the command named \fIhiddenCmdName\fR from
the set of hidden commands to the set of exposed commands, putting
it under the name
\fIcmdName\fR. 
\fIHiddenCmdName\fR must be the name of an existing hidden
command, or the operation will return \fBTCL_ERROR\fR and leave an error
message in the \fIresult\fR field in \fIinterp\fR.
If an exposed command named \fIcmdName\fR already exists,
the operation returns \fBTCL_ERROR\fR and leaves an error message in the
object result of \fIinterp\fR.
If the operation succeeds, it returns \fBTCL_OK\fR.
After executing this command, attempts to use \fIcmdName\fR in a call to
\fBTcl_Eval\fR or with the Tcl \fBeval\fR command will again succeed.
.PP
\fBTcl_HideCommand\fR moves the command named \fIcmdName\fR from the set of
exposed commands to the set of hidden commands, under the name
\fIhiddenCmdName\fR.
\fICmdName\fR must be the name of an existing exposed
command, or the operation will return \fBTCL_ERROR\fR and leave an error
message in the object result of \fIinterp\fR.
Currently both \fIcmdName\fR and \fIhiddenCmdName\fR must not contain
namespace qualifiers, or the operation will return \fBTCL_ERROR\fR and
leave an error message in the object result of \fIinterp\fR.
The \fICmdName\fR will be looked up in the global namespace, and not
relative to the current namespace, even if the current namespace is not the
global one.
If a hidden command whose name is \fIhiddenCmdName\fR already
exists, the operation also returns \fBTCL_ERROR\fR and the \fIresult\fR
field in \fIinterp\fR contains an error message.
If the operation succeeds, it returns \fBTCL_OK\fR.
After executing this command, attempts to use \fIcmdName\fR in a call to
\fBTcl_Eval\fR or with the Tcl \fBeval\fR command will fail.
.PP
For a description of the Tcl interface to multiple interpreters, see
\fIinterp(n)\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
interp

.SH KEYWORDS
alias, command, exposed commands, hidden commands, interpreter, invoke,
master, slave
