'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
'\" Copyright (c) 1994-1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
'\"
'\" See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
'\" of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
'\" 
'\" RCS: @(#) $Id$
'\" 
.\" The -*- nroff -*- definitions below are for supplemental macros used
.\" in Tcl/Tk manual entries.
.\"
.\" .AP type name in/out ?indent?
.\"	Start paragraph describing an argument to a library procedure.
.\"	type is type of argument (int, etc.), in/out is either "in", "out",
.\"	or "in/out" to describe whether procedure reads or modifies arg,
.\"	and indent is equivalent to second arg of .IP (shouldn't ever be
.\"	needed;  use .AS below instead)
.\"
.\" .AS ?type? ?name?
.\"	Give maximum sizes of arguments for setting tab stops.  Type and
.\"	name are examples of largest possible arguments that will be passed
.\"	to .AP later.  If args are omitted, default tab stops are used.
.\"
.\" .BS
.\"	Start box enclosure.  From here until next .BE, everything will be
.\"	enclosed in one large box.
.\"
.\" .BE
.\"	End of box enclosure.
.\"
.\" .CS
.\"	Begin code excerpt.
.\"
.\" .CE
.\"	End code excerpt.
.\"
.\" .VS ?version? ?br?
.\"	Begin vertical sidebar, for use in marking newly-changed parts
.\"	of man pages.  The first argument is ignored and used for recording
.\"	the version when the .VS was added, so that the sidebars can be
.\"	found and removed when they reach a certain age.  If another argument
.\"	is present, then a line break is forced before starting the sidebar.
.\"
.\" .VE
.\"	End of vertical sidebar.
.\"
.\" .DS
.\"	Begin an indented unfilled display.
.\"
.\" .DE
.\"	End of indented unfilled display.
.\"
.\" .SO ?manpage?
.\"	Start of list of standard options for a Tk widget. The manpage
.\"	argument defines where to look up the standard options; if
.\"	omitted, defaults to "options". The options follow on successive
.\"	lines, in three columns separated by tabs.
.\"
.\" .SE
.\"	End of list of standard options for a Tk widget.
.\"
.\" .OP cmdName dbName dbClass
.\"	Start of description of a specific option.  cmdName gives the
.\"	option's name as specified in the class command, dbName gives
.\"	the option's name in the option database, and dbClass gives
.\"	the option's class in the option database.
.\"
.\" .UL arg1 arg2
.\"	Print arg1 underlined, then print arg2 normally.
.\"
.\" .QW arg1 ?arg2?
.\"	Print arg1 in quotes, then arg2 normally (for trailing punctuation).
.\"
.\" .PQ arg1 ?arg2?
.\"	Print an open parenthesis, arg1 in quotes, then arg2 normally
.\"	(for trailing punctuation) and then a closing parenthesis.
.\"
.\" RCS: @(#) $Id: man.macros,v 1.9 2008/01/29 15:32:33 dkf Exp $
.\"
.\"	# Set up traps and other miscellaneous stuff for Tcl/Tk man pages.
.if t .wh -1.3i ^B
.nr ^l \n(.l
.ad b
.\"	# Start an argument description
.de AP
.ie !"\\$4"" .TP \\$4
.el \{\
.   ie !"\\$2"" .TP \\n()Cu
.   el          .TP 15
.\}
.ta \\n()Au \\n()Bu
.ie !"\\$3"" \{\
\&\\$1 \\fI\\$2\\fP (\\$3)
.\".b
.\}
.el \{\
.br
.ie !"\\$2"" \{\
\&\\$1	\\fI\\$2\\fP
.\}
.el \{\
\&\\fI\\$1\\fP
.\}
.\}
..
.\"	# define tabbing values for .AP
.de AS
.nr )A 10n
.if !"\\$1"" .nr )A \\w'\\$1'u+3n
.nr )B \\n()Au+15n
.\"
.if !"\\$2"" .nr )B \\w'\\$2'u+\\n()Au+3n
.nr )C \\n()Bu+\\w'(in/out)'u+2n
..
.AS Tcl_Interp Tcl_CreateInterp in/out
.\"	# BS - start boxed text
.\"	# ^y = starting y location
.\"	# ^b = 1
.de BS
.br
.mk ^y
.nr ^b 1u
.if n .nf
.if n .ti 0
.if n \l'\\n(.lu\(ul'
.if n .fi
..
.\"	# BE - end boxed text (draw box now)
.de BE
.nf
.ti 0
.mk ^t
.ie n \l'\\n(^lu\(ul'
.el \{\
.\"	Draw four-sided box normally, but don't draw top of
.\"	box if the box started on an earlier page.
.ie !\\n(^b-1 \{\
\h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\l'\\n(^lu+3n\(ul'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\l'|0u-1.5n\(ul'
.\}
.el \}\
\h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\h'\\n(^lu+3n'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\l'|0u-1.5n\(ul'
.\}
.\}
.fi
.br
.nr ^b 0
..
.\"	# VS - start vertical sidebar
.\"	# ^Y = starting y location
.\"	# ^v = 1 (for troff;  for nroff this doesn't matter)
.de VS
.if !"\\$2"" .br
.mk ^Y
.ie n 'mc \s12\(br\s0
.el .nr ^v 1u
..
.\"	# VE - end of vertical sidebar
.de VE
.ie n 'mc
.el \{\
.ev 2
.nf
.ti 0
.mk ^t
\h'|\\n(^lu+3n'\L'|\\n(^Yu-1v\(bv'\v'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^Yu'\h'-|\\n(^lu+3n'
.sp -1
.fi
.ev
.\}
.nr ^v 0
..
.\"	# Special macro to handle page bottom:  finish off current
.\"	# box/sidebar if in box/sidebar mode, then invoked standard
.\"	# page bottom macro.
.de ^B
.ev 2
'ti 0
'nf
.mk ^t
.if \\n(^b \{\
.\"	Draw three-sided box if this is the box's first page,
.\"	draw two sides but no top otherwise.
.ie !\\n(^b-1 \h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\l'\\n(^lu+3n\(ul'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\h'|0u'\c
.el \h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\h'\\n(^lu+3n'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\h'|0u'\c
.\}
.if \\n(^v \{\
.nr ^x \\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^Yu
\kx\h'-\\nxu'\h'|\\n(^lu+3n'\ky\L'-\\n(^xu'\v'\\n(^xu'\h'|0u'\c
.\}
.bp
'fi
.ev
.if \\n(^b \{\
.mk ^y
.nr ^b 2
.\}
.if \\n(^v \{\
.mk ^Y
.\}
..
.\"	# DS - begin display
.de DS
.RS
.nf
.sp
..
.\"	# DE - end display
.de DE
.fi
.RE
.sp
..
.\"	# SO - start of list of standard options
.de SO
'ie '\\$1'' .ds So \\fBoptions\\fR
'el .ds So \\fB\\$1\\fR
.SH "STANDARD OPTIONS"
.LP
.nf
.ta 5.5c 11c
.ft B
..
.\"	# SE - end of list of standard options
.de SE
.fi
.ft R
.LP
See the \\*(So manual entry for details on the standard options.
..
.\"	# OP - start of full description for a single option
.de OP
.LP
.nf
.ta 4c
Command-Line Name:	\\fB\\$1\\fR
Database Name:	\\fB\\$2\\fR
Database Class:	\\fB\\$3\\fR
.fi
.IP
..
.\"	# CS - begin code excerpt
.de CS
.RS
.nf
.ta .25i .5i .75i 1i
..
.\"	# CE - end code excerpt
.de CE
.fi
.RE
..
.\"	# UL - underline word
.de UL
\\$1\l'|0\(ul'\\$2
..
.\"	# QW - apply quotation marks to word
.de QW
.ie '\\*(lq'"' ``\\$1''\\$2
.\"" fix emacs highlighting
.el \\*(lq\\$1\\*(rq\\$2
..
.\"	# PQ - apply parens and quotation marks to word
.de PQ
.ie '\\*(lq'"' (``\\$1''\\$2)\\$3
.\"" fix emacs highlighting
.el (\\*(lq\\$1\\*(rq\\$2)\\$3
..
.\"	# QR - quoted range
.de QR
.ie '\\*(lq'"' ``\\$1''\\-``\\$2''\\$3
.\"" fix emacs highlighting
.el \\*(lq\\$1\\*(rq\\-\\*(lq\\$2\\*(rq\\$3
..
.\"	# MT - "empty" string
.de MT
.QW ""
..
.TH Tk_CreateWindow 3 4.2 Tk "Tk Library Procedures"
.BS
.SH NAME
Tk_CreateWindow, Tk_CreateWindowFromPath, Tk_DestroyWindow, Tk_MakeWindowExist \- create or delete window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <tk.h>\fR
.sp
Tk_Window
\fBTk_CreateWindow\fR(\fIinterp, parent, name, topLevScreen\fR)
.sp
Tk_Window
\fBTk_CreateAnonymousWindow\fR(\fIinterp, parent, topLevScreen\fR)
.sp
Tk_Window
\fBTk_CreateWindowFromPath\fR(\fIinterp, tkwin, pathName, topLevScreen\fR)
.sp
\fBTk_DestroyWindow\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.sp
\fBTk_MakeWindowExist\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS Tcl_Interp *topLevScreen
.AP Tcl_Interp *interp out
Tcl interpreter to use for error reporting.  If no error occurs,
then \fI*interp\fR is not modified.
.AP Tk_Window parent in
Token for the window that is to serve as the logical parent of
the new window.
.AP "const char" *name in
Name to use for this window.  Must be unique among all children of
the same \fIparent\fR.
.AP "const char" *topLevScreen in
Has same format as \fIscreenName\fR.  If NULL, then new window is
created as an internal window.  If non-NULL, new window is created as
a top-level window on screen \fItopLevScreen\fR.  If \fItopLevScreen\fR
is an empty string
.PQ ""
then new window is created as top-level window of \fIparent\fR's screen.
.AP Tk_Window tkwin in
Token for window.
.AP "const char" *pathName in
Name of new window, specified as path name within application
(e.g. \fB.a.b.c\fR).
.BE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The procedures \fBTk_CreateWindow\fR, 
\fBTk_CreateAnonymousWindow\fR, and \fBTk_CreateWindowFromPath\fR
are used to create new windows for
use in Tk-based applications.  Each of the procedures returns a token
that can be used to manipulate the window in other calls to the Tk
library.  If the window could not be created successfully, then NULL
is returned and \fIinterp->result\fR is modified to hold an error
message.
.PP
Tk supports two different kinds of windows:  internal
windows and top-level windows.
An internal window is an interior window of a Tk application, such as a
scrollbar or menu bar or button.  A top-level window is one that is
created as a child of a screen's root window, rather than as an
interior window, but which is logically part of some existing main
window.  Examples of top-level windows are pop-up menus and dialog boxes.
.PP
New windows may be created by calling
\fBTk_CreateWindow\fR.  If the \fItopLevScreen\fR argument is
NULL, then the new window will be an internal window.  If
\fItopLevScreen\fR is non-NULL, then the new window will be a
top-level window: \fItopLevScreen\fR indicates the name of
a screen and the new window will be created as a child of the
root window of \fItopLevScreen\fR.  In either case Tk will
consider the new window to be the logical child of \fIparent\fR:
the new window's path name will reflect this fact, options may
be specified for the new window under this assumption, and so on.
The only difference is that new X window for a top-level window
will not be a child of \fIparent\fR's X window.  For example, a pull-down
menu's \fIparent\fR would be the button-like window used to invoke it,
which would in turn be a child of the menu bar window.  A dialog box might
have the application's main window as its parent.
.PP
\fBTk_CreateAnonymousWindow\fR differs from \fBTk_CreateWindow\fR in
that it creates an unnamed window.  This window will be manipulable
only using C interfaces, and will not be visible to Tcl scripts.  Both
interior windows and top-level windows may be created with
\fBTk_CreateAnonymousWindow\fR.
.PP
\fBTk_CreateWindowFromPath\fR offers an alternate way of specifying
new windows.  In \fBTk_CreateWindowFromPath\fR the new
window is specified with a token for any window in the target
application (\fItkwin\fR), plus a path name for the new window.
It produces the same effect as \fBTk_CreateWindow\fR and allows
both top-level and internal windows to be created, depending on
the value of \fItopLevScreen\fR.  In calls to \fBTk_CreateWindowFromPath\fR,
as in calls to \fBTk_CreateWindow\fR, the parent of the new window
must exist at the time of the call, but the new window must not
already exist.
.PP
The window creation procedures do not
actually issue the command to X to create a window.
Instead, they create a local data structure associated with
the window and defer the creation of the X window.
The window will actually be created by the first call to
\fBTk_MapWindow\fR.  Deferred window creation allows various
aspects of the window (such as its size, background color,
etc.) to be modified after its creation without incurring
any overhead in the X server.  When the window is finally
mapped all of the window attributes can be set while creating
the window.
.PP
The value returned by a window-creation procedure is not the
X token for the window (it cannot be, since X has not been
asked to create the window yet).  Instead, it is a token
for Tk's local data structure for the window.  Most
of the Tk library procedures take Tk_Window tokens, rather
than X identifiers.  The actual
X window identifier can be retrieved from the local
data structure using the \fBTk_WindowId\fR macro;  see
the manual entry for \fBTk_WindowId\fR for details.
.PP
\fBTk_DestroyWindow\fR deletes a window and all the data
structures associated with it, including any event handlers
created with \fBTk_CreateEventHandler\fR.  In addition,
\fBTk_DestroyWindow\fR will delete any children of \fItkwin\fR
recursively (where children are defined in the Tk sense, consisting
of all windows that were created with the given window as \fIparent\fR).
If \fItkwin\fR is an internal window, then event
handlers interested in destroy events
are invoked immediately.  If \fItkwin\fR is a top-level or main window,
then the event handlers will be invoked later, after X has seen
the request and returned an event for it.
.PP
If a window has been created
but has not been mapped, so no X window exists, it is
possible to force the creation of the X window by
calling \fBTk_MakeWindowExist\fR.  This procedure issues
the X commands to instantiate the window given by \fItkwin\fR.

.SH KEYWORDS
create, deferred creation, destroy, display, internal window,
screen, top-level window, window
