'\" t
.\" @(#)extcheck.1 1.8 00/06/13 SMI;
.\" Copyright 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc. Tous droits r\351serv\351s.
.\"
.TH extcheck 1 "13 June 2000"
.SH NAME
extcheck \- jar conflict detection utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B extcheck 
[ 
.B \-verbose 
]  
[
.BI \-J option
] 
.I targetfile.jar
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "jar conflict detection utility" "" "jar conflict detection utility \(em \fLextcheck\fP"
.IX "extcheck" "" "\fLextcheck\fP \(em jar conflict detection utility"
The 
.B extcheck 
utility checks a specified
.B jar
file for title and
version conflicts with any extensions installed in the JDK
software.
Before installing an extension, you can use this utility
to see if the same or a more recent version of the extension is
already installed.
.LP
The 
.B extcheck 
utility compares the Specification-title and
Specification-version headers in the manifest of 
.I targetfile.jar
file against the corresponding headers in all Jar files currently
installed in the extension directory.
(The extension directory is
.B jre/lib/ext
by default.) The 
.B extcheck 
utility compares version
numbers in the same way as the method
.BR java.lang.Package.isCompatibleWith .
.LP
If no conflict is detected, the return code is 0. 
.LP
If the manifest of any jar file in the extensions 
directory has the same Specification-title and
the same or a newer Specification-version 
number, a non-zero error code is returned. A
non-zero error code is also returned if 
targetfile.jar does not have the Specification-title
or Specification-version attributes in its manifest. 
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are supported:
.TP 15
.B \-verbose
Lists
.B jar
files in the extension directory as they are
checked.
Additionally, manifest attributes of the target 
.B jar
file and any conflicting 
.B jar 
files are also reported.
.TP 15
.BI \-J option
Pass
.I option
to the Java virtual machine, where 
.I option
is one of the options described on the man page for the
java application launcher, 
.BR java (1). 
For example,
.B \-J-Xms48m
sets the startup memory to 48 megabytes. 
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR jar (1)
