'\" t
.\" @(#)jarsigner.1 1.7 00/06/13 SMI;
.\" Copyright 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc. Tous droits r\351serv\351s.
.\"
.TH jarsigner 1 "23 Jun 2004"
.SH NAME
jarsigner \- JAR signing and verification tool 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B jarsigner 
[ 
.I options
]  
.I jar-file alias
.br
.B jarsigner
.BI \-verify
[
.I options 
]
.I jar-file alias
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "JAR signing and verification tool " "" "JAR signing and verification tool  \(em \fLjarsigner\fP"
.IX "jarsigner" "" "\fLjarsigner\fP \(em JAR signing and verification tool "
The
.B jarsigner 
tool is used for two purposes:
.TP 5
1. 
to sign Java ARchive (JAR) files, and
.TP 5
2. 
to verify the signatures and integrity of signed JAR files.
.LP
The JAR feature enables the packaging of class files, images,
sounds, and other digital data in a single file for faster and
easier distribution. A tool named 
.B jar 
enables developers to
produce JAR files.
.LP
A digital signature is a string of bits that is computed from some
data (the data being "signed") and the private key of an entity (a
person, company, etc.). Like a handwritten signature, a digital
signature has many useful characteristics:
.TP 2
\(bu
Its authenticity can be verified, via a computation that uses
the public key corresponding to the private key used to
generate the signature.
.TP 2
\(bu
It cannot be forged, assuming the private key is kept secret.
.TP 2
\(bu
It is a function of the data signed and thus can't be claimed
to be the signature for other data as well.
.TP 2
\(bu
The signed data cannot be changed; if it is, the signature
will no longer verify as being authentic.
.LP
In order for an entity's signature to be generated for a file, the
entity must first have a public/private key pair associated with
it, and also one or more certificates authenticating its public
key. A certificate is a digitally signed statement from one
entity, saying that the public key of some other entity has a
particular value.
.LP
.B jarsigner 
uses key and certificate information from a keystore to
generate digital signatures for JAR files. A keystore is a
database of private keys and their associated X.509 certificate
chains authenticating the corresponding public keys. The 
.B keytool
utility is used to create and administer keystores.
.LP
.B jarsigner 
uses an entity's private key to generate a signature.
The signed JAR file contains, among other things, a copy of the
certificate from the keystore for the public key corresponding to
the private key used to sign the file. 
.B jarsigner 
can verify the
digital signature of the signed JAR file using the certificate
inside it (in its signature block file).
.LP
At this time, 
.B jarsigner 
can only sign JAR files created by the JDK
.B jar 
tool or zip files. (JAR files are the same as zip files,
except they also have a 
.B META-INF/MANIFEST.MF 
file. Such a file
will automatically be created when 
.B jarsigner 
signs a zip file.)
.LP
The default 
.B jarsigner 
behavior is to sign a JAR file. Use the
.B -verify 
option to instead have it verify a signed JAR file.
.SS Compatibility with JDK 1.1
.IX "jarsigner" "Compatibility with JDK 1.1" "\fLjarsigner\fP \(em JAR signing and verification tool "
The 
.B keytool 
and
.B jarsigner 
tools completely replace
the 
.B javakey 
tool provided in JDK 1.1. These new tools provide more
features than 
.BR javakey , 
including the ability to protect the
keystore and private keys with passwords, and the ability to
verify signatures in addition to generating them. 
.LP
The new keystore architecture replaces the identity
database that 
.B javakey 
created and managed. There is no
backwards compatibility between the keystore format and
the database format used by 
.B javakey 
in 1.1. However:
.TP 2
\(bu
It is possible to import the information from an
identity database into a keystore, via the 
.B keytool -identitydb 
command
.TP 2
\(bu
.B jarsigner 
can sign JAR files also previously signed
using 
.B javakey 
.TP 2
\(bu
.B jarsigner 
can verify JAR files signed using
.B javakey  
Thus, it recognizes and can work with
signer aliases that are from a JDK 1.1 identity
database rather than a JDK 1.2 keystore.
.LP 
The following table explains how JAR files that were
signed in JDK 1.1.x are treated in the Java 2 Platform.
.LP
.nf
.ft 3

                         Trusted
                        Identity
                        imported     Policy File
JAR File  Identity in   into 1.2       grants        Privileges
  Type   1.1 database   keystore    privileges to     Granted
                        from 1.1   Identity/Alias
                        database
                           (4)

Signed                                             Default
JAR      NO            NO         NO               privaleges
                                                   granted to
                                                   all code.
												   
Unsigned                                           Default
JAR      NO            NO         NO               privileges
                                                   granted to
                                                   all code.

Signed                                             Default
JAR      NO            YES        NO               privileges
                                                   granted to
                                                   all code.

Signed                                             Default
JAR      YES/Untrusted NO         NO               privileges
                                                   granted to
                                                   all code. (3)

Signed                                             Default
JAR      YES/Untrusted NO         YES              privileges
                                                   granted to
                                                   all code.
                                                   (1,3)

Signed                                             Default 
JAR      NO            YES        YES              privileges
                                                   granted to
                                                   all code plus
                                                   privileges
                                                   granted in
                                                   policy file.
												   
Signed                                             Default 
JAR      YES/Trusted   YES        YES              privileges
                                                   granted to
                                                   all code plus
                                                   privileges
                                                   granted in
                                                   policy file.
                                                   (2)

Signed                                             All
JAR      YES/Trusted   NO         NO               privileges

Signed                                             All
JAR      YES/Trusted   YES        NO               privileges
                                                   (1)

Signed                                             All
JAR      YES/Trusted   NO         YES              privileges
                                                   (1)

.fi
.ft 1
.LP
Notes:
.TP 5
1. 
If an identity/alias is mentioned in the policy
file, it must be imported into the keystore for the
policy file to have any effect on privileges
granted.
.TP 5
1. 
If an identity/alias is mentioned in the policy
file, it must be imported into the keystore for the
policy file to have any effect on privileges
granted.
.TP 5
2. 
The policy file/keystore combination has precedence
over a trusted identity in the identity database.
.TP 5
3. 
Untrusted identities are ignored in the Java 2 platform.
.TP 5
4. 
Only trusted identities can be imported into Java 2 SDK
keystores.
.SS Keystore Aliases
.IX "jarsigner" "Keystore Aliases" "\fLjarsigner\fP \(em JAR signing and verification tool "
.LP
All keystore entities are accessed via unique aliases.
.LP
When using
.B jarsigner 
to sign a JAR file, you must
specify the alias for the keystore entry containing the
private key needed to generate the signature. For
example, the following will sign the JAR file named
.BR MyJARFile.jar , 
using the private key associated with
the alias 
.B duke 
in the keystore named 
.B mystore
in the
"working" directory. Since no output file is specified,
it overwrites 
.B MyJARFile.jar 
with the signed JAR file.
.LP
.ft 3
.nf
jarsigner -keystore /working/mystore -storepass 
   myspass -keypass dukekeypasswd MyJARFile.jar duke
.fi
.ft 1
.LP
Keystores are protected with a password, so the store
password (in this case 
.BR myspass ) 
must be specified. You
will be prompted for it if you don't specify it on the
command line. Similarly, private keys are protected in a
keystore with a password, so the private key's password
(in this case 
.BR dukekeypasswd ) 
must be specified, and
you will be prompted for it if you don't specify it on
the command line and it isn't the same as the store
password.
.SS Keystore Location
.IX "jarsigner" "Keystore Location" "\fLjarsigner\fP \(em JAR signing and verification tool "
.B jarsigner 
has a 
.B -keystore 
option for specifying the name
and location of the keystore to be used. The keystore is
by default stored in a file named 
.B .keystore 
in the
user's home directory, as determined by the 
.B user.home
system property. 
.LP
Note that the input stream from 
the \-keystore option is passed to the
.B KeyStore.load 
method. 
If NONE is specified as the URL, then a null stream is passed
to the 
.B KeyStore.load 
method. NONE should be specified if the 
KeyStore is not file-based, for example, if it resides on a 
hardware token device. 
.SS Keystore Implementation
.IX "jarsigner" "Keystore Implementation" "\fLjarsigner\fP \(em JAR signing and verification tool "
The KeyStore class provided in the 
.B java.security 
package supplies well-defined
interfaces to access and modify the information 
in a keystore. It is possible for
there to be multiple different concrete 
implementations, where each
implementation is that for a particular type of keystore. 
.LP
Currently, there are two command-line tools that make
use of 
.BR KeyStore : 
.B keytool 
and
.BR  jarsigner , 
and also a
GUI-based tool named 
.BR policytool . 
Since 
.B KeyStore 
is
publicly available, JDK users can write additional
security applications that use it.
.LP
There is a built-in default implementation, provided by
Sun Microsystems. It implements the keystore as a file,
utilizing a proprietary keystore type (format) named
"JKS". It protects each private key with its individual
password, and also protects the integrity of the entire
keystore with a (possibly different) password.
.LP
Keystore implementations are provider-based. More
specifically, the application interfaces supplied by
.B KeyStore 
are implemented in terms of a "Service Provider
Interface" (SPI). That is, there is a corresponding
abstract 
.B KeystoreSpi 
class, also in the 
.B java.security
package, which defines the Service Provider Interface
methods that "providers" must implement. (The term
"provider" refers to a package or a set of packages that
supply a concrete implementation of a subset of services
that can be accessed by the Java Security API.) Thus, to
provide a keystore implementation, clients must
implement a provider and supply a 
.B KeystoreSpi 
subclass
implementation, as described in 
.IR "How to Implement a Provider for the Java Cryptography Architecture" .
.LP
Applications can choose different types of keystore
implementations from different providers, using the
.B getInstance 
factory method supplied in the 
.B KeyStore
class. A keystore type defines the storage and data
format of the keystore information, and the algorithms
used to protect private keys in the keystore and the
integrity of the keystore itself. Keystore
implementations of different types are not compatible.
.LP
.B keytool 
works on any file-based keystore implementation.
(It treats the keytore location that is passed to it at
the command line as a filename and converts it to a
.BR FileInputStream , 
from which it loads the keystore
information.) The
.B jarsigner 
and 
.B policytool 
tools, on the
other hand, can read a keystore from any location that
can be specified using a URL.
.LP
For
.B jarsigner 
and
.BR keytool , 
you can specify a keystore
type at the command line, via the
.B -storetype 
option. For
.BR policytool , 
you can specify a keystore type via the
"Change Keystore" command in the Edit menu.
.LP
If you don't explicitly specify a keystore type, the
tools choose a keystore implementation based simply on
the value of the 
.B keystore.type 
property specified in the
security properties file.
The security properties file
is called 
.BR java.security , 
and it resides in the
security properties directory, 
.BR java.home/lib/security ,
where 
.B java.home 
is the
runtime environment's directory
(the jre directory in the SDK or the
top-level directory of the Java 2 Runtime Environment).
.LP
Each tool gets the 
.B keystore.type 
value and then examines
all the currently-installed providers until it finds one
that implements keystores of that type. It then uses the
keystore implementation from that provider.
.LP
The 
.B KeyStore 
class defines a static method named
.B getDefaultType 
that lets applications and applets
retrieve the value of the 
.B keystore.type 
property. The
following line of code creates an instance of the
default keystore type (as specified in the 
.B keystore.type
property):
.LP
.RS 5
.B KeyStore keyStore = KeyStore.getInstance(KeyStore.getDefaultType());
.RE
.LP
The default keystore type is "jks" (the proprietary type
of the keystore implementation provided by Sun). This is
specified by the following line in the security
properties file:
.LP
.RS 5
.B keystore.type=jks
.RE
.LP
To have the tools utilize a keystore implementation
other than the default, change that line to specify a
different keystore type.
.LP
For example, if you have a provider package that
supplies a keystore implementation for a keystore type
called "pkcs12", change the line to
.LP
.B keystore.type=pkcs12
.LP
Note: case doesn't matter in keystore type designations.
For example, "JKS" would be considered the same as
"jks".
.SS Supported Algorithms and Key Sizes
.IX "jarsigner" "Supported Algorithms and Key Sizes" "\fLjarsigner\fP \(em JAR signing and verification tool "
.LP
At this time,
.B jarsigner 
can sign a JAR file using either
.TP 2
\(bu
DSA (Digital Signature Algorithm) with the SHA-1
digest algorithm, or
.TP 2
\(bu
the RSA algorithm with the MD5 digest algorithm.
.LP
That is, if the signer's public and private keys are DSA
keys,
.B jarsigner 
will attempt to sign the JAR file using the
SHA-1/DSA algorithm. If the signer's keys are RSA keys,
.B jarsigner 
will sign the JAR file using the MD5/RSA
algorithm. This is only possible if there is a
statically installed provider supplying an
implementation for the MD5/RSA algorithm. (There is
always a SHA-1/DSA algorithm available, from the default
"SUN" provider.)
.LP
.SS The Signed JAR File
.IX "jarsigner" "The Signed JAR File" "\fLjarsigner\fP \(em JAR signing and verification tool "
.LP
When
.B jarsigner 
is used to sign a JAR file, the output
signed JAR file is exactly the same as the input JAR
file, except that it has two additional files placed in
the 
.B META-INF 
directory:
.TP 2
\(bu
a signature file, with a 
.B .SF 
extension, and
.TP 2
\(bu
a signature block file, with a 
.B .DSA 
extension.
.LP
The base file names for these two files come from the
value of the 
.B -sigFile 
option. For example, if the option
appears as
.LP
.B -sigFile MKSIGN
.LP
the files are named 
.B MKSIGN.SF 
and 
.BR MKSIGN.DSA .
.LP
If no 
.B -sigfile 
option appears on the command line, the
base file name for the 
.B .SF 
and 
.B .DSA 
files will be the
first 8 characters of the alias name specified on the
command line, all converted to upper case. If the alias
name has fewer than 8 characters, the full alias name is
used. If the alias name contains any characters that are
not allowed in a signature file name, each such
character is converted to an underscore ("_") character
in forming the file name. Legal characters include
letters, digits, underscores, and hyphens.
.LP
The Signature (\f3.SF\f1) 
File
.LP
A signature file (the 
.B .SF 
file) looks similar
to the manifest file that is always included
in a JAR file generated by the 
.B jar 
tool. That
is, for each source file included in the JAR
file, the 
.B .SF 
file has three lines, just as in
the manifest file, listing the following:
.TP 2
\(bu
the file name,
.TP 2
\(bu
the name of the digest algorithm used
(SHA), and
.TP 2
\(bu
a SHA digest value.
.LP
In the manifest file, the SHA digest value for
each source file is the digest (hash) of the
binary data in the source file. In the 
.B .SF
file, on the other hand, the digest value for
a given source file is the hash of the three
lines in the manifest file for the source
file.
.LP
The signature file also, by default, includes
a header containing a hash of the whole
manifest file. The presence of the header
enables verification optimization, as
described in JAR File Verification.
.LP
The Signature Block (\f3.DSA\f1) File
.LP
The 
.B .SF 
file is signed and the signature is
placed in the 
.B .DSA 
file. The 
.B .DSA 
file also
contains, encoded inside it, a certificate
authenticating the public key corresponding to
the private key used for signing.
.LP
.SS JAR File Verification
.IX "jarsigner" "JAR File Verification" "\fLjarsigner\fP \(em JAR signing and verification tool "
.LP
A successful JAR file verification occurs if the
signature(s) are valid, and none of the files that were
in the JAR file when the signatures were generated have
been changed since then. JAR file verification involves
the following steps:
.TP 5
1. 
Verify the signature of the 
.B .SF 
file itself.
.RS 
.LP
That is, the verification ensures that the
signature stored in each signature block (\f3.DSA\f1)
file was in fact generated using the private key
corresponding to the public key whose certificate
also appears in the 
.B .DSA 
file. It also ensures that
the signature is a valid signature of the
corresponding signature (\f3.SF\f1) 
file, and thus the 
.B .SF 
file has not been tampered with.
.RE
.TP 5
2. 
Verify the digest listed in each entry in the 
.B .SF
file with each corresponding section in the
manifest.
.RS 
.LP
The 
.B .SF 
file by default includes a header
containing a hash of the entire manifest file. When
the header is present, then the verification can
check to see whether or not the hash in the header
indeed matches the hash of the manifest file. If
that is the case, verification proceeds to the next
step.
.LP
If that is not the case, a less optimized
verification is required to ensure that the hash in
each source file information section in the 
.B .SF
file equals the hash of its corresponding section
in the manifest file (see The Signature (\f3.SF\f1)
File).  
.LP
One reason the hash of the manifest file that is
stored in the 
.B .SF 
file header may not equal the
hash of the current manifest file would be because
one or more files were added to the JAR file (using
the 
.B jar 
tool) after the signature (and thus the 
.B .SF
file) was generated. When the 
.B jar 
tool is used to
add files, the manifest file is changed (sections
are added to it for the new files), but the 
.B .SF
file is not. A verification is still considered
successful if none of the files that were in the
JAR file when the signature was generated have been
changed since then, which is the case if the hashes
in the non-header sections of the 
.B .SF 
file equal
the hashes of the corresponding sections in the
manifest file.
.RE
.TP 5
3. 
Read each file in the JAR file that has an entry in
the 
.B .SF 
file. While reading, compute the file's
digest, and then compare the result with the digest
for this file in the manifest section. The digests
should be the same, or verification fails.
.LP
If any serious verification failures occur during the
verification process, the process is stopped and a
security exception is thrown. It is caught and displayed
by 
.BR jarsigner .
.LP
.SS Multiple Signatures for a JAR File
.IX "jarsigner" "Multiple Signatures for a JAR File" "\fLjarsigner\fP \(em JAR signing and verification tool "
.LP
A JAR file can be signed by multiple people simply by
running the 
.B jarsigner 
tool on the file multiple times, specifying
the alias for a different person each time, as in:
.LP
.ft 3
.nf
jarsigner myBundle.jar susan
jarsigner myBundle.jar kevin
.fi
.ft 1
.LP
When a JAR file is signed multiple times, there are
multiple 
.B .SF 
and 
.B .DSA 
files in the resulting JAR file,
one pair for each signature. Thus, in the example above,
the output JAR file includes files with the following
names:
.LP
.ft 3
.nf
SUSAN.SF
SUSAN.DSA
KEVIN.SF
KEVIN.DSA
.fi
.ft 1
.LP
Note: It is also possible for a JAR file to 
have mixed signatures, some generated by
the JDK 1.1 javakey tool and others by 
jarsigner. That is, jarsigner can be used
to sign JAR files already previously signed using javakey. 
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The various
.B jarsigner 
options are listed and described below.
Note:
.TP 2
\(bu
All option names are preceded by a minus sign (-).
.TP 2
\(bu
The options may be provided in any order.
.TP 2
\(bu
Items in italics (option values) represent the actual values
that must be supplied.
.TP 2
\(bu
The
.BR -keystore ,
.BR -storepass ,
.BR -keypass ,
.BR -sigfile ,
and
.B -signedjar 
options are only relevant when signing a JAR file,
not when verifying a signed JAR file. Similarly, an alias is
only specified on the command line when signing a JAR file.
.TP 15
.BI -keystore " url"
Specifies the URL that tells the keystore location. This
defaults to the file 
.B .keystore 
in the user's home directory,
as determined by the 
.B user.home 
system property.
.RS
.LP
A keystore is required when signing, so you must explicitly
specify one if the default keystore does not exist (or you
want to use one other than the default).
.LP
A keystore is not required when verifying, but if one is
specified, or the default exists, and the 
.B -verbose 
option was
also specified, additional information is output regarding
whether or not any of the certificates used to verify the JAR
file are contained in that keystore.
.LP
Note: the 
.B -keystore 
argument can actually be a file name (and
path) specification rather than a URL, in which case it will
be treated the same as a "file:" URL. That is,
.LP
.B -keystore filePathAndName
.LP
is treated as equivalent to
.LP
.B -keystore file:filePathAndName
.LP
.RE
.TP
.BI -storetype " storetype"
Specifies the type of keystore to be instantiated. The
default keystore type is the one that is specified as the
value of the "keystore.type" property in the security
properties file, which is returned by the static
.B getDefaultType 
method in 
.BR java.security.KeyStore .
.TP
.BI -storepass " password"
Specifies the password which is required to access the
keystore. This is only needed when signing (not verifying) a
JAR file. In that case, if a 
.B -storepass 
option is not
provided at the command line, the user is prompted for the
password.
.RS 
.LP
Note: The password shouldn't be specified on the command line
or in a script unless it is for testing purposes, or you are
on a secure system. Also, when typing in a password at the
password prompt, the password is echoed (displayed exactly as
typed), so be careful not to type it in front of anyone.
.RE
.TP
.BI -keypass " password"
Specifies the password used to protect the private key of the
keystore entry addressed by the alias specified on the
command line. The password is required when using 
.B jarsigner
to sign a JAR file. If no password is provided on the command
line, and the required password is different from the store
password, the user is prompted for it.
.RS 
.LP
Note: The password shouldn't be specified on the command line
or in a script unless it is for testing purposes, or you are
on a secure system. Also, when typing in a password at the
password prompt, the password is echoed (displayed exactly as
typed), so be careful not to type it in front of anyone.
.RE
.TP
.BI -sigfile " file"
Specifies the base file name to be used for the generated 
.B .SF
and 
.B .DSA 
files. For example, if file is 
.BR DUKESIGN , 
the
generated 
.B .SF 
and 
.B .DSA 
files will be named 
.B DUKESIGN.SF 
and
.BR DUKESIGN.DSA , 
and will be placed in the 
.B META-INF
directory of the signed JAR file.
.RS 
.LP
The characters in file must come from the set "a-zA-Z0-9_-".
That is, only letters, numbers, underscore, and hyphen
characters are allowed.
Note: All lowercase characters will
be converted to uppercase for the 
.B .SF 
and 
.B .DSA 
file names.
.LP
If no 
.B -sigfile 
option appears on the command line, the base
file name for the 
.B .SF 
and 
.B .DSA 
files will be the first 8
characters of the alias name specified on the command line,
all converted to upper case. If the alias name has fewer than
8 characters, the full alias name is used.  If the alias name
contains any characters that are not legal in a signature
file name, each such character is converted to an underscore
("_") character in forming the file name.
.RE
.TP
.BI -signedjar " file"
Specifies the name to be used for the signed JAR file.
.RS 
.LP
If no name is specified on the command line, the name used is
the same as the input JAR file name (the name of the JAR file
to be signed); in other words, that file is overwritten with
the signed JAR file.
.RE
.TP
.B -verify
If this appears on the command line, the specified JAR file
will be verified, not signed. If the verification is
successful, "jar verified" will be displayed. If you try to
verify an unsigned JAR file, or a JAR file signed with an
unsupported algorithm (for example, RSA when you don't have an RSA
provider installed), the following is displayed: "jar is
unsigned. (signatures missing or not parsable)"
.RS 
.LP
It is possible to verify JAR files signed using either
.B jarsigner 
or the JDK 1.1 
.B javakey 
tool, or both.
.LP
For further information on verification, see JAR File
Verification.
.RE
.TP
.B -certs
If this appears on the command line, along with the 
.B -verify
and 
.B -verbose 
options, the output includes certificate
information for each signer of the JAR file. This information
includes:
.RS
.TP 2
\(bu
the name of the type of certificate (stored in the 
.B .DSA
file) that certifies the signer's public key
.TP 2
\(bu
if the certificate is an X.509 certificate (more
specifically, an instance of
java.security.cert.X509Certificate): the distinguished
name of the signer
.LP
The keystore is also examined. If no keystore value is
specified on the command line, the default keystore file (if
any) will be checked. If the public key certificate for a
signer matches an entry in the keystore, then the following
information will also be displayed:
.TP 2
\(bu
in parentheses, the alias name for the keystore entry
for that signer. If the signer actually comes from a JDK
1.1 identity database instead of from a keystore, the
alias name will appear in brackets instead of
parentheses.
.RE
.TP
.B -verbose
If this appears on the command line, it indicates "verbose"
mode, which causes
.B jarsigner 
to output extra information as
to the progress of the JAR signing or verification.
.TP
.B -internalsf
In the past, the 
.B .DSA 
(signature block) file generated when a
JAR file was signed used to include a complete encoded copy
of the 
.B .SF 
file (signature file) also generated. This
behavior has been changed. To reduce the overall size of the
output JAR file, the 
.B .DSA 
file by default doesn't contain a
copy of the 
.B .SF 
file anymore. But if 
.B -internalsf 
appears on
the command line, the old behavior is utilized. This option
is mainly useful for testing; in practice, it should not be
used, since doing so eliminates a useful optimization.
.TP
.B -sectionsonly
If this appears on the command line, the 
.B .SF 
file (signature
file) generated when a JAR file is signed does not include a
header containing a hash of the whole manifest file. It just
contains information and hashes related to each individual
source file included in the JAR file, as described in The
Signature (\f3.SF\f1) 
File .
.RS 
.LP
By default, this header is added, as an optimization. When
the header is present, then whenever the JAR file is
verified, the verification can first check to see whether or
not the hash in the header indeed matches the hash of the
whole manifest file. If so, verification proceeds to the next
step. If not, it is necessary to do a less optimized
verification that the hash in each source file information
section in the 
.B .SF 
file equals the hash of its corresponding
section in the manifest file.
.LP
For further information, see JAR File Verification.
.LP
This option is mainly useful for testing; in practice, it
should not be used, since doing so eliminates a useful
optimization.
.RE
.TP
.BI \-provider " provider_class_name"
Used to specify the name
of the cryptographic service provider's master class
file when the service provider is not listed in
the security properties file.
.TP
.BI \-J javaoption
Passes the specified javaoption string directly to the runtime system. 
(\f3jarsigner\f1
is actually a "wrapper"
around the interpreter.) This option should not contain any
spaces.
It is useful for adjusting the execution environment
or memory usage.
For a list of possible flags, type 
.B java \-h 
or 
.B java \-X 
at the
command line.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Signing a JAR File
.IX "jarsigner" "Signing a JAR File" "\fLjarsigner\fP \(em JAR signing and verification tool "
Suppose you have a JAR file named 
.B bundle.jar 
and you'd
like to sign it using the private key of the user whose
keystore alias is "jane" in the keystore named "mystore"
in the "working" directory. Suppose the keystore
password is "myspass" and the password for jane's
private key is "j638klm". You can use the following to
sign the JAR file and name the signed JAR file
"sbundle.jar":
.LP
.ft 3
.nf
jarsigner \-keystore "/working/mystore" \-storepass myspass
   \-keypass j638klm \-signedjar sbundle.jar bundle.jar jane
.fi
.ft 1
.LP
Note that there is no 
.B \-sigfile 
specified in the command
above, so the generated 
.B .SF 
and 
.B .DSA 
files to be placed
in the signed JAR file will have default names based on
the alias name. That is, they will be named 
.B JANE.SF 
and
.BR JANE.DSA .
.LP
If you want to be prompted for the store password and
the private key password, you could shorten the above
command to
.LP
.ft 3
.nf
jarsigner \-keystore /working/mystore
   \-signedjar sbundle.jar bundle.jar jane
.fi
.ft 1
.LP
If the keystore to be used is the default keystore (the
one named 
.B .keystore 
in your home directory), you don't
need to specify a keystore, as in:
.LP
.ft 3
.nf
jarsigner \-signedjar sbundle.jar bundle.jar jane
.fi
.ft 1
.LP
Finally, if you want the signed JAR file to simply
overwrite the input JAR file (bundle.jar), you don't
need to specify a 
.B -signedjar 
option:
.LP
.ft 3
.nf
jarsigner bundle.jar jane
.fi
.ft 1
.SS Verifying a Signed JAR File
.IX "jarsigner" "Verifying a Signed JAR File" "\fLjarsigner\fP \(em JAR signing and verification tool "
To verify a signed JAR file, that is, to verify that the
signature is valid and the JAR file has not been
tampered with, use a command such as the following:
.LP
.ft 3
.nf
jarsigner \-verify sbundle.jar
.fi
.ft 1
.LP
If the verification is successful,
.LP
.ft 3
.nf
jar verified.
.fi
.ft 1
.LP
is displayed. Otherwise, an error message appears.
.LP
You can get more information if you use the 
.B \-verbose
option. A sample use of 
.B jarsigner 
with the 
.B \-verbose
option is shown below, along with sample output:
.LP
.ft 3
.nf
jarsigner -verify -verbose sbundle.jar

             198 Fri Sep 26 16:14:06 PDT 1997 META-INF/MANIFEST.MF
             199 Fri Sep 26 16:22:10 PDT 1997 META-INF/JANE.SF
            1013 Fri Sep 26 16:22:10 PDT 1997 META-INF/JANE.DSA
      smk   2752 Fri Sep 26 16:12:30 PDT 1997 AclEx.class
      smk    849 Fri Sep 26 16:12:46 PDT 1997 test.class

        s = signature was verified
        m = entry is listed in manifest
        k = at least one certificate was found in keystore

      jar verified.
.fi
.ft 1
.LP
.SS Verification with Certificate Information
.IX "jarsigner" "Verification with Certificate Information" "\fLjarsigner\fP \(em JAR signing and verification tool "
If you specify the 
.B \-certs 
option when verifying, along
with the 
.B \-verify 
and 
.B \-verbose 
options, the output
includes certificate information for each signer of the
JAR file, including the certificate type, the signer
distinguished name information (if it's an X.509
certificate), and, in parentheses, the keystore alias
for the signer if the public key certificate in the JAR
file matches that in a keystore entry. For example,
.LP
.ft 3
.nf
example% jarsigner \-keystore /working/mystore \-verify \-verbose \-certs myTest.jar

      198 Fri Sep 26 16:14:06 PDT 1997 META-INF/MANIFEST.MF
      199 Fri Sep 26 16:22:10 PDT 1997 META-INF/JANE.SF
     1013 Fri Sep 26 16:22:10 PDT 1997 META-INF/JANE.DSA
      208 Fri Sep 26 16:23:30 PDT 1997 META-INF/JAVATEST.SF
     1087 Fri Sep 26 16:23:30 PDT 1997 META-INF/JAVATEST.DSA
smk   2752 Fri Sep 26 16:12:30 PDT 1997 Tst.class

 X.509, CN=Test Group, OU=Java Software, O=Sun Microsystems, L=CUP, S=CA, C=US (javatest)
 X.509, CN=Jane Smith, OU=Java Software, O=Sun, L=cup, S=ca, C=us (jane)

 s = signature was verified
 m = entry is listed in manifest
 k = at least one certificate was found in keystore

jar verified.
.fi
.ft 1
.LP
If the certificate for a signer is not an X.509
certificate, there is no distinguished name information.
In that case, just the certificate type and the alias
are shown. For example, if the certificate is a PGP
certificate, and the alias is "bob", you'd get
.LP
.ft 3
.nf
PGP, (bob)
.fi
.ft 1
.LP
.SS Verification of a JAR File that Includes Idnetity Database Signers
.IX "jarsigner" "Verification of a JAR File" "\fLjarsigner\fP \(em JAR signing and verification tool "
If a JAR file has been signed using the JDK 1.1 
.B javakey
tool, and thus the signer is an alias in an identity
database, the verification output includes an "i"
symbol. If the JAR file has been signed by both an alias
in an identity database and an alias in a keystore, both
"k" and "i" appear.
.LP
When the 
.B \-certs 
option is used, any identity database
aliases are shown in square brackets rather than the
parentheses used for keystore aliases. For example:
.LP
.ft 3
.nf
jarsigner \-keystore /working/mystore \-verify \-verbose \-certs writeFile.jar

      198 Fri Sep 26 16:14:06 PDT 1997 META-INF/MANIFEST.MF
      199 Fri Sep 26 16:22:10 PDT 1997 META-INF/JANE.SF
     1013 Fri Sep 26 16:22:10 PDT 1997 META-INF/JANE.DSA
      199 Fri Sep 27 12:22:30 PDT 1997 META-INF/DUKE.SF
     1013 Fri Sep 27 12:22:30 PDT 1997 META-INF/DUKE.DSA
smki   2752 Fri Sep 26 16:12:30 PDT 1997 writeFile.html

 X.509, CN=Jane Smith, OU=Java Software, O=Sun, L=cup, S=ca, C=us (jane)
 X.509, CN=Duke, OU=Java Software, O=Sun, L=cup, S=ca, C=us [duke]

 s = signature was verified
 m = entry is listed in manifest
 k = at least one certificate was found in keystore
 i = at least one certificate was found in identity scope

jar verified.
.fi
.ft 1
.LP
Note that the alias "duke" is in brackets to denote that
it is an identity database alias, not a keystore alias.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR jar (1),
.BR keytool (1)
