'\" t
.\" @(#)xjc.1
.\" Copyright 2006 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH xjc 1 "07 Aug 2006"
.SH NAME
xjc - Java XML Binding Compiler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xjc
[
.IR -options " ] " <schema_file/URL/dir> "... [ -b " <bindinfo> " ]..."
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 15
.I options
Command-line options.
.TP
.I <schema_file/URL/dir>
Specify one or more schema files to compile. If you specify a directory, then xjc
will scan it for all schema files and compile them.
.TP
.I <bindinfo>
External binding file to process.
.PP
.\" .SH DESCRIPTION
.\" .PP
.\" xjc is the Java XML Binding Compiler.
.\" .PP
.SH  OPTIONS 
.IP "\fB-nv\fR" 4m
By default, the XJC binding compiler performs strict validation of the source schema
before processing it. Use this option to disable strict schema validation. This does not
mean that the binding compiler will not perform any validation, it simply means that it
will perform less-strict validation.
.IP "\fB-extension\fR" 4m
By default, the XJC binding compiler strictly enforces the rules outlined in the
Compatibility chapter of the JAXB Specification.  Appendix E.2 defines a set of W3C XML
Schema features that are not completely supported by JAXB v1.0.  In some cases, you may
be allowed to use them in the "-extension" mode enabled by this switch.  In the default
(strict) mode, you are also limited to using only the binding customizations defined in
the specification.  By using the "-extension" switch, you will be allowed to use the
JAXB Vendor Extensions
.IP "\fB-b \f2<file>\fR" 4m
Specify one or more external binding files to process. (Each binding file must have
its own "\f3-b\f1" switch.)  The syntax of the external binding files is extremely
flexible. You may have a single binding file that contains customizations for multiple
schemas or you can break the customizations into multiple bindings files:
.RS
.LP
xjc schema1.xsd schema2.xsd schema3.xsd -b bindings123.xjb
.br
xjc schema1.xsd schema2.xsd schema3.xsd -b bindings1.xjb -b bindings2.xjb -b bindings3.xjb
.LP
In addition, the ordering of the schema files and binding files on the command line does
not matter. 
.RE
.IP "\fB-d \f2<dir>\fR" 4m
By default, the XJC binding compiler will generate the Java content classes in the
current directory. Use this option to specify an alternate output directory. The output
directory must already exist, the XJC binding compiler will not create it for you.
.IP "\fB-p \f2<pkg>\fR" 4m
Specifying a target package via this command-line option overrides any binding
customization for package name and the default package name algorithm defined in the
specification.
.IP "\fB-httpproxy \f2<proxy>\fR" 4m
Specify the HTTP/HTTPS proxy. The format is [user[:password]@]proxyHost[:proxyPort].
The old \f3-host\fR and \f3-port\fR are still supported by the RI for
backwards compatibility, but they have been deprecated. Note that the password
specified with this option is an argument that is visible to other users who use the
top command, for example. For greater security, use
\f3-httpproxyfile\fR, below. 
.IP "\fB-httpproxyfile \f2<file>\fR" 4m
Specify the HTTP/HTTPS proxy using a file. Same format as above, but the password
specified in the file is not visible to other users. 
.IP "\fB-classpath \f2<arg>\fR" 4m
Specify where to find client application class files used by the
<jxb:javaType> and <xjc:superClass>
customizations.
.IP "\fB-catalog \f2<file>\fR" 4m
Specify catalog files to resolve external entity references.  Supports TR9401,
XCatalog, and OASIS XML Catalog format.  Please read the XML Entity and URI Resolvers
document or the catalog-resolver sample application.
.IP "\fB-readOnly\fR" 4m
By default, the XJC binding compiler does not write-protect the Java source files
it generates. Use this option to force the XJC binding compiler to mark the generated
Java sources read-only.
.IP "\fB-npa\fR" 4m
Supress the generation of package level annotations into **/package-info.java.
Using this switch causes the generated code to internalize those annotations into the
other generated classes.
.IP "\fB-xmlschema\fR" 4m
Treat input schemas as W3C XML Schema (default). If you do not specify this switch,
your input schemas will be treated as W3C XML Schema.
.IP "\fB-relaxng\fR" 4m
Treat input schemas as RELAX NG (experimental, unsupported). Support for RELAX NG
schemas is provided as a JAXB Vendor Extension.
.IP "\fB-relaxng-compact\fR" 4m
Treat input schemas as RELAX NG compact syntax(experimental, unsupported). Support
for RELAX NG schemas is provided as a JAXB Vendor Extension. 
.IP "\fB-dtd\fR" 4m
Treat input schemas as XML DTD (experimental, unsupported). Support for RELAX NG
schemas is provided as a JAXB Vendor Extension.
.IP "\fB-wsdl\fR" 4m
Treat input as WSDL and compile schemas inside it (experimental,unsupported).
.IP "\fB-quiet\fR" 4m
Suppress compiler output, such as progress information and warnings. 
.IP "\fB-verbose\fR" 4m
Be extra verbose, such as printing informational messages or displaying stack traces
upon some errors. 
.IP "\fB-help\fR" 4m
Display a brief summary of the compiler switches.
.IP "\fB-version\fR" 4m
Display the compiler version information.
.PP
.SS Summary of Deprecated and Removed Command Line Options
.IP "\fB-host & -port\fR" 4m
These options have been deprecated and replaced with the \fB-httpproxy\fR
option. For backwards compatibility, we will continue to support these options,
but they will no longer be documented and may be removed from future releases.
.IP "\fB-use-runtime\fR" 4m
Since the JAXB 2.0 specification has defined a portable runtime, it is no
longer necessary for the JAXB RI to generate **/impl/runtime packages. Therefore,
this switch is obsolete and has been removed.
.IP "\fB-source\fR" 4m
The -source compatibility switch was introduced in the first JAXB 2.0 Early
Access release. We have decided to remove this switch from future releases of JAXB
2.0. If you need to generate 1.0.x code, please use an installation of the 1.0.x
codebase.
.IP "\fB-Xlocator & -Xsync-methods\fR" 4m
These switches have been disabled for now. We plan on releasing this
functionality as a separate download in the future.
.PP
.SS Compiler Restrictions
.PP
In general, it is safest to compile all related schemas as a single unit with
the same binding compiler switches.
.PP
Please keep the following list of restrictions in mind when running xjc. Most
of these issues only apply when compiling multiple schemas with multiple
invocations of xjc.
.RS 3
.IP \(bu 2
To compile multiple schemas at the same time, keep the following precedence
rules for the target Java package name in mind:
.RS 3
.IP 1. 3
The "\fB-p\fR" command line option takes the highest precedence.
.IP 2. 3
<jaxb:package> customization
.IP 3. 3
If targetNamespace is declared, apply targetNamespace
-> Java package name algorithm defined in the specification.
.IP 4. 3
If no targetNamespace is declared, use a hardcoded package named 
\(dqgenerated\(dq.
.RE
.PP
.IP \(bu 2
It is not legal to have more than one jaxb:schemaBindings>
per namespace, so it is impossible to have two schemas in the same target namespace
compiled into different Java packages.
.IP \(bu 2
All schemas being compiled into the same Java package must be submitted to the 
XJC binding compiler at the same time - they cannot be compiled independently and
work as expected.
.IP \(bu 2
Element substitution groups spread across multiple schema files must be compiled
at the same time.
.RE
.\" .SH "See Also"
.\" .LP
.\" .RS 3
.\" .TP 2
.\" o
.\" JAXB 2.0: 
.\" .RS 3
.\" .TP 2
.\" *
.\" .na
.\" \f2Release Notes\fP @
.\" .fi
.\" http://java.sun.com/webservices/docs/2.0/jaxb/ReleaseNotes.html 
.\" .TP 2
.\" *
.\" .na
.\" \f2XJC\fP @
.\" .fi
.\" http://java.sun.com/webservices/docs/2.0/jaxb/xjc.html 
.\" .TP 2
.\" *
.\" .na
.\" \f2XJCTask\fP @
.\" .fi
.\" http://java.sun.com/webservices/docs/2.0/jaxb/xjcTask.html 
.\" .TP 2
.\" *
.\" .na
.\" \f2SchemaGen\fP @
.\" .fi
.\" http://java.sun.com/webservices/docs/2.0/jaxb/schemagen.html 
.\" .TP 2
.\" *
.\" .na
.\" \f2schemagenTask\fP @
.\" .fi
.\" http://java.sun.com/webservices/docs/2.0/jaxb/schemagenTask.html 
.\" .TP 2
.\" *
.\" .na
.\" \f2Sample Apps\fP @
.\" .fi
.\" http://java.sun.com/webservices/docs/2.0/jaxb/samples.html 
.\" .TP 2
.\" *
.\" .na
.\" \f2Changelog\fP @
.\" .fi
.\" http://java.sun.com/webservices/docs/2.0/jaxb/changelog2.html 
.\" .RE
.\" .TP 2
.\" o
.\" JAXB 1.0.x: 
.\" .RS 3
.\" .TP 2
.\" *
.\" .na
.\" \f2Release Notes\fP @
.\" .fi
.\" http://java.sun.com/webservices/docs/2.0/jaxb/jaxb\-1_0.html 
.\" .TP 2
.\" *
.\" .na
.\" \f2Changelog\fP @
.\" .fi
.\" http://java.sun.com/webservices/docs/2.0/jaxb/changelog.html 
.\" .RE
.\" .TP 2
.\" o
.\" JAXB RI Extensions: 
.\" .RS 3
.\" .TP 2
.\" *
.\" .na
.\" \f2Runtime Properties\fP @
.\" .fi
.\" http://java.sun.com/webservices/docs/2.0/jaxb/vendorProperties.html 
.\" .TP 2
.\" *
.\" .na
.\" \f2XJC Customizations\fP @
.\" .fi
.\" http://java.sun.com/webservices/docs/2.0/jaxb/vendorCustomizations.html 
.\" .TP 2
.\" *
.\" .na
.\" \f2Develop Plugins\fP @
.\" .fi
.\" http://java.sun.com/webservices/docs/2.0/jaxb/developPlugins.html 
.\" .RE
.\" .TP 2
.\" o
.\" JAXB RI Schema Languages: 
.\" .RS 3
.\" .TP 2
.\" *
.\" .na
.\" \f2W3C XML Schema\fP @
.\" .fi
.\" http://java.sun.com/webservices/docs/2.0/jaxb/vendorSchemaLangs.html#xschema 
.\" .TP 2
.\" *
.\" .na
.\" \f2RELAX NG\fP @
.\" .fi
.\" http://java.sun.com/webservices/docs/2.0/jaxb/vendorSchemaLangs.html#relaxng 
.\" .TP 2
.\" *
.\" .na
.\" \f2DTD\fP @
.\" .fi
.\" http://java.sun.com/webservices/docs/2.0/jaxb/vendorSchemaLangs.html#dtd 
.\" .RE
.\" .TP 2
.\" o
.\" JAXB Community: 
.\" .RS 3
.\" .TP 2
.\" *
.\" .na
.\" \f2Java.net Homepage\fP @
.\" .fi
.\" http://jaxb.dev.java.net 
.\" .TP 2
.\" *
.\" .na
.\" \f2Developer interest list\fP @
.\" .fi
.\" https://jaxb.dev.java.net/servlets/ProjectMailingListList 
.\" .TP 2
.\" *
.\" .na
.\" \f2FAQ\fP @
.\" .fi
.\" https://jaxb.dev.java.net/faq/index.html 
.\" .RE
.\" .RE
